The Project Gutenberg EBook of Twelve Months with the Eighth Massachusetts
Infantry in the Service of the United State, by Harry E. Webber

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Twelve Months with the Eighth Massachusetts Infantry in the Service of the United States

Author: Harry E. Webber

Release Date: June 13, 2016 [EBook #52321]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EIGHTH MASSACHUSETTS INFANTRY ***




Produced by John Campbell and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









  TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  Obvious typographical errors and punctuation errors have been
  corrected after careful comparison with other occurrences within
  the text and consultation of external sources.

  More detail can be found at the end of the book.




[Illustration: COL. WILLIAM A. PEW, JR.]




  _Twelve Months with the Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry in the
  Service of the United States_


  _By_ HARRY E. WEBBER

  _With an Introduction by_ Maj. Gen. J. P. Sanger, U. S. A.
  (retired). Sometime Commander of the Third
  Division, First Army Corps,
  U. S. A.

  [Illustration: (small image of U.S. flag)]


  SALEM, MASS.
  _Newcomb & Gauss, Printers_
  1908




  COPYRIGHT, 1908
  By HARRY E. WEBBER




  To the Officers and Men of the
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.,
  this volume is dedicated




CONTENTS.


                                Page

  Preface,                         9

  Introduction,                   13

  Call to Arms,                   35

  Muster In,                      47

  Chickamauga,                    57

  Sickness at Chickamauga,        77

  Lexington,                      95

  Americus,                      113

  Matanzas,                      131

  Muster Out,                    151

  Welcome Home,                  157

  Roll of Honor,                 169

  Some Statistics,               177

  Field and Staff,               187

  Non-Commissioned Staff,        193

  The Band,                      197

  Company A, Newburyport,        203

  Company B, Amesbury,           217

  Company C, Marblehead,         233

  Company D, Lynn,               247

  Company E, Beverly,            261

  Company F, Haverhill,          275

  Company G, Gloucester,         289

  Company H, Salem,              303

  Company I, Lynn,               319

  Company K, Danvers,            333

  Company L, Lawrence,           347

  Company M, Somerville,         361

  Chronology,                    377

  Appendix,                      387




_Preface_


It is a habit with the citizens of old Essex, one of the pioneer
counties of the grand old Commonwealth of Massachusetts, to
point with pride to the fact that since the earliest days of the
settlement, she was ever ready to take up arms at the country's call,
and her sons were always found ready and willing to go forth to do
battle for what they believed to be the right.

The record of her soldiers and sailors is a splendid one, and her
sons have nobly represented her on land and on sea. It is perhaps
a far cry from the early days of the settlement to the opening of
hostilities in the last conflict at arms in which the men of the
county figured.

In the earlier events the hazards of warfare were perhaps more, but
on the other hand, in those days it was necessary for all men able
to handle a gun to fight, while in the recent clash at arms the men
who answered their country's call volunteered their services, seeking
the privilege of bearing arms rather than having the duty forced upon
them. Honor to them all, not only for "what they did, but all they
dared."

Massachusetts has furnished her full quota of men at every call of
the country. Old Essex has given her share, and as one of the Essex
Regiments, the Eighth has figured on several occasions.

Of those previous to 1898 this volume has no detailed account to
present, but it is a matter of pride to the citizens of this county
that it is said of the Eighth Massachusetts that it was the first
National Guard regiment ready, after a canvass of its officers and
men, to volunteer, and was one of the first to leave the state in
the service of the nation in the conflict with Spain.

The call to arms on this occasion did not come unexpectedly. For some
months events had been so shaping themselves that it was evident to
all close observers of national affairs that a conflict was almost
inevitable, and the government had been placing itself in a position
to enable the country to acquit itself creditably when the clash came.

War has been declared between nations for many causes, some of them
trivial. Some have been wars of oppression, some of conquest, and
so on, but the conflict of 1898 was in its way unique. It was a war
waged in the interests of humanity. For years upon years, one of our
next door neighbors, so to speak, the island of Cuba, lying just off
our southern coast, had felt the iron heel of the despots of the
Kingdom of Spain. As act after act of oppression galled upon the
natives of the island they were stirred to revolt, only to be subdued
and then subjected to even more crushing indignities.

The last great revolt was perhaps the best organized of any, and
spreading from one end of the island to the other, became of such
magnitude as to almost reach the dignity of a war between nations
instead of the rebellion of a colony against its dominating power.

With the same spirit that made heroes out of our forefathers in the
days of '76, the Cubans fought for their rights and for independence,
and their gallant struggles not only enlisted the almost universal
sympathy of this country, but many soldiers of fortune from the
United States fought under the Cuban colors.

While the attitude of the government was diplomatically neutral,
the press and a large majority of citizens were out and out
sympathizers with the Cuban cause, and it was but a question of a
short time before arms, ammunition, supplies and men found themselves
surreptitiously on the way to Cuba, in aid of the cause of the
islanders.

Naturally this state of affairs was resented by the Spaniards, and
the feelings of the two nations gradually became more and more
strained, even though diplomatically there was no breach.

No doubt the sensational press, especially the so-called "yellow
journals", had a great deal to do with inflaming the public passion,
but carefully planned investigations of the conditions on the island
revealed a state of affairs so gross that the worst stories of
cruelty and inhumanity seemed plausible, and the feeling against
Spain eventually became so bitter that it needed only the spark to
kindle the flame of war.

This was eventually furnished, and is one of the blackest chapters of
the Cuban war, by the destruction of an American warship while lying
peacefully at anchor in Havana harbor, under the guns of the Spanish
forts, and in a time of peace.

The "Maine" had been ordered to Cuban waters to look out for American
interests. She was received in due form by the Spanish authorities,
and her berth was picked out by them. While lying at anchor on the
night of February 15, 1898, she was blown up from the outside,
presumably by a mine, and many lives lost, while many more men were
horribly injured.

This was undoubtedly the specific act that led to the opening of war
between the United States and Spain, the details of which will be
found in other volumes.

It is the purpose of this book to treat simply of the part played
in the conflict by the Eighth Regiment, Massachusetts Infantry, U.
S. V., which was the official designation of the boys of the Eighth
Regiment Infantry, Massachusetts Volunteer Militia, when called into
the service of the United States.

Although one of the first volunteer regiments to get away, it so
happened that it was so assigned for duty that it missed getting
into an engagement with the enemy, although being sent to Cuba and
performing several months of its service there. It was the first
foreign service of the regiment, and was a performance that will take
a prominent part in the history of the Eighth Massachusetts, which
embraces so long and honorable a record.




_Introduction_


  _To the officers and men of the Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U.
  S. V._:--


I have been requested by the author, Mr. Harry E. Webber, to write
some account of the Eighth Massachusetts Regiment, while under my
command during the Spanish-American war.

I reported for duty in Chickamauga Park, June 20th, 1898, and was
assigned to the Second Brigade, First Division of the First Corps,
consisting of the Third Illinois, Fourth Pennsylvania, and Fourth
Ohio Regiments. These were all good regiments, especially the Fourth
Pennsylvania, under Colonel David B. Case. As I expected to remain
with this brigade throughout the war, I began an inspection by
company, battalion, and regiment, so that I might learn something
more about their actual condition, and the capacity of the officers
than could be learned on parade. I mention this circumstance, not
because it concerns the Eighth Massachusetts, but because the
information I gathered was of the greatest use to me later on in
dealing with other volunteer regiments.

I did not complete this inspection, however, as on the 28th of June,
I was assigned to the command of the Third Division of the First
Corps, composed of the Twelfth Minnesota, Fifth Pennsylvania, First
South Carolina, Eighth Massachusetts, Twelfth New York, Twenty-First
Kansas, Ninth Pennsylvania, Second Missouri, and First New Hampshire.
Subsequently, during the changes and vicissitudes which occurred,
there were assigned or attached to this Division, the Third United
States Volunteers, Engineers, the Fifth Missouri, the One Hundred
and Sixtieth Indiana, the Second, Third and Fourth Kentucky, Third
Mississippi, First Territorial, and the Third and Fourth Immune
Regiments of Infantry, and one squadron of the First Kentucky
Cavalry,--so that I had ample opportunity to observe and compare
different volunteer regiments.

The Eighth Massachusetts arrived in the Park May 19th, and came under
my observation about one month later, and before I joined the Third
Division. It was the only volunteer regiment I saw fully uniformed
in khaki. As this dress was new to me, it attracted my attention
at once, and I rode over twice to the Second Brigade of the Third
Division for a better look at the regiment, which, needless to say,
made a very favorable impression.

As will doubtless be remembered, the Third Division remained in the
Park until the 21st of August, when it was transferred to Lexington,
Kentucky, where it went into camp on the Bryan road at Clark's Farm,
about five miles east of the city. There it remained until November
4th, its official designation was changed by orders from the War
Department, to the Second Division, First Army Corps, and on the 10th
it was ordered to Georgia, the Headquarters Signal Company, Third
United States Volunteers, Engineers, and First Brigade to Columbus,
the Second Brigade to Americus, and the Third Brigade to Albany. At
this time the Second Brigade consisted of the Eighth Massachusetts,
Twelfth New York and Fourth Kentucky, under Brigadier General Waites,
U. S. V. The Fourth Kentucky was ordered to be mustered out, leaving
the other two regiments to compose the Brigade, and this arrangement
was not changed while the Division remained in service.

On the 16th of November I was relieved from the command of the
Second Division and ordered to the Second Brigade, relieving General
Waites, and was thus brought into closer contact with the Eighth
Massachusetts. The Brigade remained in Americus until November 26th
when, under orders from the War Department, the headquarters, the
Brigade Hospital and the Twelfth New York Regiment, were ordered
to Charleston, S. C. en route to Matanzas, Cuba, where it arrived
January 1st.

A few days later the Eighth Massachusetts rejoined, and not long
thereafter the One Hundred and Sixtieth Indiana, Third Kentucky,
Tenth United States Infantry, and six troops of the Second United
States Cavalry which composed the garrison of the city and district
of Matanzas, and the Second Brigade of the Second Division of the
First Army Corps, practically ceased to exist. When the Third
Division became the Second Division, Major General Ludlow was
assigned to command it. He remained in command until December 17th
when I was ordered to relieve him. I rejoined the Second Brigade in
Americus December 26th and went with it to Cuba.

The Eighth remained in Matanzas until April 4, 1899, when it sailed
for Boston, where it was mustered out of the service of the United
States, and reverted to its status as a regiment of the National
Guard. While it was not given to the Eighth Massachusetts to undergo
the supreme test of the battlefield, it proved beyond the shadow of
a doubt by its calm indifference to death in other forms and its
devotion to duty, that it would have met that test with a glorified
record of good discipline and steadfast courage. Who among all of
those who had the misfortune to remain in Chickamauga Park through
the summer of 1898, will ever forget the trials and dangers of that
encampment? From forty to sixty thousand men huddled together within
an area not too large for a sedentary camp of two divisions.[1]

Prior to August 1st the camps of all the regiments of the Third
Division, were in the woods with an average of from six to eight men
in a tent, many of which were unfit for occupancy. Polluted water,
insufficient supplies and protection from the incessant rains of that
year, and the fact that neither the camp nor the tents were ever
moved, from lack of space, produced their inevitable result, and when
the Third Division left the Park, August 21st, there were twenty-nine
officers and 1237 enlisted men on the sick report, out of 337
officers and 9464 men present; or, in other words, one officer out of
twelve and one man out of eight. Although questioned at the time by
those high in authority, it is now well known that a large proportion
of the sick had typhoid fever; in fact it was epidemic.[2]

My recollections of Chickamauga Park are not pleasant for reasons
which I cannot very well explain here. It is sufficient to say that
I was fully cognizant of the wretched conditions which sent the sick
report higher each day and subjected the sick in hospital to needless
privation and suffering, but was powerless to prevent or ameliorate
them. In fact, for administrative purposes, I was very little more
than a figure head, although held responsible by the regiments,
whose appeals for a relief which never came while we remained in the
Park, were most distressing to me. At that time the collapse of the
war had not been foreseen, and although the Spanish forces in the
eastern district of Santiago, Cuba had capitulated July 16, it was
not until the protocol of August 12th, providing for a cessation
of hostilities, that we felt the war was over and that the Third
Division would probably never fire a hostile shot. In the meantime,
however, under the orders of the Corps Commander, the Division was
held in readiness to move at a moment's notice, and every effort was
made to prepare it for service against the Spaniards.

To this end, and on the day after I assumed the command, orders were
issued to prepare the Division for active service in accordance
with the instructions of the War Department. These prescribed the
clothing, ammunition, and rations to be carried on the person and
in the two wagons allowed each company,--all other clothing and all
other personal belongings of the men to be packed in boxes legibly
marked with the company and regiment, and turned over to the depot
quartermaster for storage or shipment. To render the officers and men
expert in packing, and to determine just what could be carried under
the instructions referred to, each regiment was required to strike
tents and pack up, after which it was marched to the regimental
parade grounds, followed by its wagons, and inspected by the Brigade
Commander. It was well understood that all regimental and company
property which had not been disposed of when marching orders were
received, must be abandoned.

As up to the time I assumed command of the Division there had been
no target practice, on July 1, Major Edward H. Eldredge, of the
Eighth Massachusetts, was appointed Inspector of Rifle Practice,
and preparations were at once made to begin target practice.
Nothing could have been more fortunate than the selection of the
major for this most important branch of instruction. Conscientious,
enthusiastic, and thoroughly competent, he had the target ranges
established, and the Division at work firing within a week, and this
was continued daily (Sunday excepted), until just before the Division
left the Park.

On July 26 a division rifle competition was held, each regiment
furnishing a team of 12 men; ten shots were fired off hand by each
man, at 160 yards (possible score 600 points). The highest score was
made by the Eighth Massachusetts with 481 points; the lowest score
was 409.

In the course of the instruction it was found that many men had never
fired a gun and were correspondingly ignorant of this most important
requirement. What would they have done in the line of battle? Well,
I will tell you. Those who were not killed would have been perfectly
demoralized until they either ran away or perhaps were wounded, in
which case they would have added vastly to the cares of the Division
Commander and his medical staff. In either case, they would have been
of no possible use except as stretcher bearers. Nothing could be more
objectionable on the part of the high military authorities than to
send such men under fire, and there is no possible excuse for it.

Other measures taken to prepare the Division for active service were
careful instruction in guard duty, the service of advance guards and
outposts, by battalions and regiments; litter drill and "first aid."

As it was rumored that the First Corps would be sent against Havana,
orders were issued for the formation of a pioneer detachment in each
regiment to consist of one officer, two non-commissioned officers and
ten privates, to be specially selected for their practical knowledge
of the duties of pioneers, viz: the removal of obstructions,
corduroying roads, the building, repair and destruction of simple
bridges, culverts, railroad beds and embankments, and the use of high
explosives. No difficulty whatever was experienced in finding the men
who in the discharge of their duties rendered most valuable services
to the Division.

To give the brigade and regimental commanders some idea of the
difficulty of forming the Division in line of battle on broken and
obstructed ground, and to exercise the officers and men in preserving
the line, supplying ammunition, and caring for the wounded,--problems
in which the entire Division took part, were carried out practically.

Many of you will doubtless remember those exercises and how difficult
it was to form the Division in line without wide gaps between
brigades, or to move it in any direction without breaking the
formation. These problems, although extremely simple, were of great
benefit as a relief to the monotony of drill, and in testing the
field efficiency of the medical and ordinance services.

In the meantime, the Corps Commander, with the First Division of the
Corps, left the Park en route to Cuba and Porto Rico, and on August
15th I went to Lexington to select a camp for the Third Division,
in which the typhoid had spread rapidly, and on August 21st, the
movement to Lexington began. Although we left between three and
four hundred men in the hospital when we moved to Lexington, the
Division was so thoroughly impregnated with this disease and with
malarial fever that more cases were inevitable, and the hospital
of 1000 beds, which was established in anticipation of this very
contingency, proved inadequate, and but for the timely removal of the
convalescents to other places, would have needed a large extension.
Those of the regiment now living will not have forgotten the struggle
which then took place to stamp out the typhoid fever. It was a fight
to a finish, in which every available means known to medical and
sanitary science was used during a period of three months.

For the information of those members of the regiment who have joined
since the war with Spain, and because it was the most serious
condition which confronted the regiment during its service in the
field, I venture to give some account of our efforts to overcome this
dread disease.

In selecting and arranging the site of the Division encampment,
I was influenced more by sanitary requirements than by any other
considerations whatever. To the camp of each regiment fifty acres
of cleared land were allowed. This insured wide company streets,
sufficient space between tents to admit of their being moved, plenty
of room for the regimental and battalion staffs, guard tents, cook
tents, sinks, corrals, and regimental parade grounds, with sufficient
isolation from neighboring regiments.

Ground was also set aside for division and brigade headquarters, and
for a general parade ground, the division hospital and the various
departments of supply, and these were far enough removed from each
other and the troops to prevent any encroachment. All told, the
Division occupied about 1000 acres.

The different camps were then laid out by the division engineer,
aided by the pioneer corps, and a copious supply of pure water
secured, and all the sinks (kitchen and men's), were dug, ditched
and housed, and tent floors made ready before the first regiment of
the Division arrived, so that there was no occasion for defiling the
ground or for unnecessary exposure to the weather.

As soon as practicable after the regiments arrived, the following
sanitary orders were carried into effect. A non-commissioned officer
was placed in charge of every sink, who received his instructions
from the regimental surgeon as to the use of chloride of lime, quick
lime, crude petroleum and corrosive sublimate, large quantities of
which were provided by the medical purveyor and chief quartermaster
of the Division.

For example, a box of the chloride of lime was kept in each of the
men's sinks and it was the duty of the non-commissioned officer in
charge to see that a small quantity was thrown into the sink three
times daily, and that the sink floors were scrubbed every morning and
then mopped with a solution of corrosive sublimate. All the men's
sinks were lighted at night. Quick-lime and crude petroleum were also
used in all the sinks, not only as disinfectants, but to keep the
flies away.

Tents were moved once each week, the sites vacated thoroughly
sprinkled with quick-lime, the under surface of the floors lime
washed, and the tent floors mopped with a solution of corrosive
sublimate; tent walls were raised, clothing and bedding thoroughly
aired daily; all bed sacks were filled with clean straw, the old
straw burned, and the bed sacks boiled every month, and whenever
a man was sent to the hospital his bed sack received the same
treatment; all water barrels were burned out every two weeks, all
stable manure removed from the camp daily, and together with all
other refuse, burned, and for this purpose regimental or brigade
crematories were constructed as might be most convenient.

Facilities were provided in each company for washing and bathing and
every soldier was required to bathe at least twice each week and to
keep his hair and beard neatly trimmed. All drinking water was boiled
and filtered and the men cautioned against drinking water of any
other kind.

The indiscriminate sale and use of farm products, garden truck,
fruit, pies, cakes, and all soft drinks were prohibited, nor were
hucksters permitted in any of the regimental camps without the
written authority of the commanding officer.

To insure the execution of these instructions, a division sanitary
inspector was appointed, whose duty it was to visit the camp of each
regiment daily and, together with the medical officer on duty and
officer of the day, make inspection of the police of the camp, giving
all needful orders for the correction of sanitary abuses and defects.

As no regimental hospitals were contemplated by the War Department,
and none were permitted in Camp Hamilton, men sick enough to require
treatment in bed were removed to the division hospital. On arriving
there their clothing was removed and carefully disinfected, labeled
and packed away, and if their cases were of doubtful character they
were sent to the detention ward until the nature of their disease
could be determined, when they were disposed of accordingly.

At 2 P. M. daily a medical officer of each regiment reported at the
division hospital, and with the medical officer in charge of the
wards, visited the sick of his regiment and decided whether they
should be returned to duty or not. This had a very good effect, as
it brought the medical officers of the regiment into daily contact
with the sick of their own regiments, which was a great comfort to
them, and besides kept the medical officers fully informed of their
condition.

As far as possible the sick of the different regiments were kept
together, and no one except the regimental and company commanders,
the medical officers, chaplains, and immediate relatives of the sick
were allowed to visit them. This restriction was rendered necessary
by the danger of infection in typhoid cases, and to prevent the
excitement and noise caused by visitors.

I am aware that many of the requirements and restrictions ordered at
that time were considered harsh and unnecessary and gave rise to some
bad feeling and grumbling, but as they had the unqualified approval
of the medical staff, I had no hesitation in enforcing them. That
they were fully justified was clearly shown by the results.

Within a short time after our arrival in Lexington the number of
sick increased so rapidly that the division hospital was filled
to overflowing. But in the course of five or six weeks, and as a
consequence of our strenuous efforts, the number began to diminish,
until finally, and before the Division moved to Georgia in November,
not a single case remained in the Division outside of the hospitals,
and no new cases were ever reported to me while the Division remained
in service.

Of the part taken by the Eighth Massachusetts in this heroic
struggle, a great deal might be written by way of commendation. It is
probably sufficient to say that Colonel Pew and his officers appeared
to realize fully the gravity of the situation, and relying on the
good discipline and high order of intelligence of the rank and file,
had but little difficulty in carrying out the sanitary regulations of
the camp, thus preserving the lives of many of the men.

Before leaving this subject, and at the risk of exhausting your
patience, I can not refrain from giving you a word of warning. Of all
the diseases which infest sedentary camps, such as those established
in the United States and Cuba during the recent war, none is more
insidious or deadly in its effects than typhoid fever.

It would be very unusual indeed for a regiment of the National Guard
or of Volunteers to assemble in camp at any time without bringing
with it at least one case of undeveloped typhoid fever. Now, a week
may elapse before such a case is discovered and reported, and in
the meantime the man who has it may have given it to a dozen other
men through fecal and urinary discharges, and through carelessness
in using the sink in washing his hands and bathing, and in keeping
his clothing absolutely free from that kind of pollution. Hence the
importance of personal cleanliness and the strictest enforcement of
all the sanitary rules which may be established.

In a camp of regular soldiers thoroughly instructed in the duties
of sentinels, and not afraid to enforce their orders, this is not
difficult, but among volunteers where guard duty is often not
understood, or is looked upon with disfavor, and but little sense
of individual responsibility, it is a very difficult matter, and
such camps may speedily and easily become hot beds for the spread of
typhoid and other diseases.

Bear this in mind and resolve that should the exigencies of the
military service ever require you to go into camp again, you will
not only keep yourselves clean, but will insist on a clean camp,
clean kitchens and sinks, clean food and mess kits, and that you will
mercilessly punish all infractions of sanitary rules, as well as the
sentinels or other guards who knowingly permit them.

I remained in command of the Second Division until November 16th,
when I was relieved, and on the 21st assumed command of the Second
Brigade at Americus. Although I knew the Eighth Massachusetts quite
well, I now determined to know it thoroughly, and on November 28th,
commenced an inspection of the regiment by battalion, and in order
that every officer and enlisted man might attend, it was ordered that
no guard or other detail would be furnished by the battalion under
inspection.

I began with the First Battalion of the Eighth Massachusetts and
wound up with the Third Battalion, giving each just such a critical
inspection as was prescribed for regulars. In other words, I made a
careful examination of the arms and equipments, clothing, camp and
garrison equipage, mess books, records and drills of each company,
battalion and regiment.

Target practice was resumed as soon as the Brigade was settled in
camp, and each regiment was given the most careful and detailed
instruction in outpost duties and those of the advanced guard. An
effort was also made to instruct the Brigade in the principles of
a front and flank attack, beginning at short distances, which were
extended finally to 3000 yards over obstructed ground, the enemy's
position being indicated, and as far as possible the exercises made
as realistic as possible.

The month spent at Americus was full of professional interest and
profit, and caused me to realize more fully the very great advantage
of a brigade camp over larger ones, and how much better it would
have been at the outset to have fully equipped each regiment in
its State camp, to then have assembled it with other regiments
in a brigade camp--preferably in the same State--commanded by a
thoroughly competent and active general officer, there to receive
the preliminary instruction so easily given under such circumstances,
and so next to impossible in the camp of a Division of an army corps.

The Eighth Massachusetts and Twelfth New York were fairly well
equipped when I joined them in the Park, but the First South Carolina
regiment was without arms, equipment or uniforms. The men ate with
their fingers for several weeks, and relied on such crude dishes as
could be improvised from tomato-cans, etc. I have no doubt that much
of the complaint made by this regiment about the rations, was chiefly
due to this.

The Eighth Massachusetts in two detachments left Americus January 6th
and 8th, and arrived in Matanzas January 10th and 13th and went into
camp near Fort San Severino on the west side of the bay.

On the 12th of January the last of the fifteen thousand Spanish
soldiers under Generals Merina and Molina, composing the garrison of
Matanzas, sailed away, and about 8 o'clock in the evening, General
Bettancourt and his detachment of insurgent troops marched into the
city, which went wild with excitement. The First Battalion Eighth
Massachusetts and Twelfth New York were held in readiness that night
lest there should be any hostile demonstration towards the Spanish
residents of the city. It turned out that the natives were so intent
on celebrating the departure of the Spanish troops that no attention
was paid to anything else, and apart from that the night passed
quietly.

On January 12th Major-General J. H. Wilson relieved me from command
of the Department of Matanzas, and on the following day I was
assigned to command the District of Matanzas with headquarters in
the city. Up to this time I had been interested chiefly in arranging
for the evacuation of the Spaniards, in caring for the troops, and
getting them settled in camp.

On January 5th a bureau of street cleaning and sanitation had been
established as the result of a careful inspection of the city, and
the prevalence of yellow fever during the preceding month. Six deaths
had occurred, and we were all somewhat solicitous about the future.
Two cases occurred, one a civilian who died, the other a soldier, who
recovered.

As a precautionary measure the old yellow fever hospital was burned
and a new one of canvas erected near the district hospital. I then
gave my attention to the very serious and delicate duties connected
with the administration of the District and City of Matanzas, in
accordance with the laws of war, and the orders of the President.

Although by virtue of the military occupation of Cuba martial law
prevailed, it was the President's wish that as far as possible the
inhabitants might be secured in their persons, and property, and in
all their private rights and relations as long as they performed
their duties, and that they be protected in their homes, their
employments, and in the free exercise of their religion. That as far
as possible the municipal laws such as related to the private rights
of persons and property, and provided for the punishment of crime,
should be continued in force, to be administered by the ordinary
tribunals substantially as they were before the occupation.

The frame work of municipal government in Cuba was excellent, far
better in some respects than our own, but Spaniards filled nearly
all the insular, provincial and municipal offices and municipal
government was under the direct supervision of the provincial and
insular governments. Nevertheless, the municipal organization was
complete, excellent of its kind, and ample for the government of
the city and district, and I determined at the outset to instil
into the local authorities a proper sense of their responsibilities
and authority as the agent of a free and liberal government, and
to require them to perform all their duties, using the troops only
when necessary to aid their efforts to maintain law and order and to
prevent any disorderly conduct on the part of the officers or men. To
this end a provost marshal with a suitable guard was appointed and
Fort San Severino was converted into a military prison.

The scope of this article will not admit of a detailed account of
all that was done for the people and City of Matanzas during our
stay there. It is probably sufficient to say that we cleaned and
disinfected the city and established a system of sanitation so
thorough that a recent traveler through the island told me that
Matanzas was the cleanest and healthiest city in Cuba, and that there
had been no case of yellow fever there since we left. To accomplish
this a certain number of our officers and non-commissioned officers
and men associated with the various city officials, who were,
however, required to take the lead, the officers acting as advisers
and assistants when necessary.

Matanzas was suffering at that time from the effects of the
reconcentration ordered by General Weyler, and the population has
been increased from about 25,000 to 40,000, chiefly refugees. As soon
as it could be done these people were returned to their old homes, or
provided with homes elsewhere. In the meantime, they, together with
all other indigent poor, to the number of 19,373, were fed by the
United States Government. Prior to this many--chiefly children--died
of starvation, and many more would have followed but for the timely
arrival of the troops.

Some idea of what was done by the Army for the people of Matanzas
may be gathered from the vital statistics of the city. During the
year 1897 there were 6,729 recorded deaths, and in 1898, 5,972,
or an average of 6,350 or over 500 deaths per month. In April,
1899, the last report rendered before we left showed a total of 68
deaths, quite a perceptible decrease in four months. I have enlarged
somewhat on this subject because the results of our efforts were so
gratifying, and because the Eighth Massachusetts took an important
part in this work, especially Chaplain George D. Sanders.

Another most useful and special service rendered by the Eighth was a
settlement of the first strike ever inaugurated in Matanzas. Labor
unions and strikes were unknown before American occupation, but it
was not long before labor union delegates from the States arrived in
Havana, and soon unions were formed and rumors of strikes reached
Matanzas, to be followed later by two delegates who organized a
union and started a strike for shorter hours and higher pay among
the employees of the railway and the stevedores engaged in loading
the annual sugar crop, then arriving in vast quantities. As a large
number of the native workmen did not care to strike, those who did
immediately began the kind of intimidation usually resorted to in
this country, and several were assaulted and more threatened, and the
situation became serious.

At this point the manager of the road appealed to me for protection
and I sent two companies of the Eighth to the freight yards to see
that protection was given. I gave no instructions but relied on the
experience and good sense of the officers and men, and they ended
the strike to my entire satisfaction. No doubt they can recall the
circumstances, and the very effective measures resorted to.

That they were good and sufficient may be inferred from the fact that
no one ever complained of them, except the two delegates, and they
were told they could go to jail or leave town, which latter they did
by the first available train, and peace and contentment prevailed
thereafter to the end.

On the 20th of January commenced the festivities to celebrate the
evacuation of Cuba by the Spaniards, and on February 22nd another
fiesta was held in honor of General Maximo Gomez, at that time
the idol of the Cubans. Upon both occasions the entire population
thronged the streets and the greatest excitement prevailed. General
Gomez remained in Matanzas three days, and with his departure the
city settled down into its usual calm.

Thanks to the tact and excellent conduct of the troops, nothing
occurred to disturb the festivities; the crowds were handled with
great skill and with due regard to their susceptibilities and their
first taste of personal liberty--not only as individuals but as a
community. And to the very great honor of the troops it may be said
that this was ever the rule in dealing with the residents of the
city, no complaint of misconduct, public or private, having ever been
made to me.

The Eighth Massachusetts was especially fortunate in gaining the good
will of the Cubans, and when it left Matanzas was the recipient of
a letter of enthusiastic commendation from the mayor of the city.
A copy of the letter was sent to me, and the very complimentary
expressions of the mayor were neither exaggerated nor unmerited. The
regiment deserved a great deal from the people of Matanzas, and it
was very gratifying to me to know that they appreciated your services.

I regret that in this brief sketch I have not been able to go
more into detail concerning the duties, the trials and successful
achievements of the Eighth Massachusetts during the Spanish War. It
is sufficient for me to say as your brigade and division commander,
that while we were together, a day rarely passed that I did not ride
through your camp, turn out the guard and take a general look around,
and on every Sunday make a careful inspection, and it gives me the
greatest pleasure to say that in point of efficiency the regiment had
few equals, and no superiors, among the volunteer regiments which
came under my observation.

Proper esprit de corps and a high sense of duty pervaded the
regiment, due in great measure to the excellent example of Colonel
Pew and his field officers, Lieutenant-Colonels Bailey and Stopford
and Majors Eldredge and Graves. During the summer of 1907 I visited
the regiment in camp at South Framingham and was glad to note that
the instruction and the experience of the war had not been forgotten.

In conclusion I beg to remind you that while all military efforts
should be directed towards the preparation of soldiers for the great
tests of the battlefield, because so much may depend on the result,
there are other tests which if successfully borne, entitle soldiers
to as much credit as good conduct under fire, although they may not
bring them as much renown.

Among disciplined soldiers it is the exception to find one who does
not behave well under fire, but it by no means follows that the
bravest will not falter in their duty if beset in a sedentary camp
with plague, pestilence or famine. It is not as much of a strain on
the nerves to see a soldier killed in battle as to see him die of an
epidemic disease, nor do I believe it is as hard for the soldier.
When a soldier goes under fire, he is facing the very contingency
for which he enlisted and for which he has been trained. He knows he
may be shot and wounded or killed, but his duty lies unequivocally
before him and appeals directly to his pride and to his manhood in a
way disease can never do. Who will say then that the men who fought
the battle of San Juan deserved more credit than those who died from
typhoid fever while acting as volunteer nurses to their comrades
or in the discharge of other duties, when by getting a furlough or
running away they could have avoided all risk. The excitement of
battle and the example of brave men have made a hero of many a man
who but for that would have run away.

But in a typhoid fever camp death lurks everywhere and there is no
stimulating excitement to strengthen those who have to face it.

Therefore the highest honors should not be given solely to those
soldiers who are so fortunate as to do their duty under fire, but to
those as well who do their duty where-ever they may be, regardless of
consequences, and in all the circumstances which may attend them.

Do not therefore complain, as I have heard some of you do, or tinge
your recollections of the war with regret, because you did not take
part in the only battle that was fought, but, hoping for better luck
next time, find supreme satisfaction in the reflection that you did
your whole duty in places where death was quite as imminent as on San
Juan Hill, and that no other regiment, regular or volunteer, could
have done more.

  J. P. SANGER,
  _Major General, U. S. A., Retired_.


FOOTNOTES:

[1] NOTE--In 1898, the Park proper contained 5530.4 acres, of which
2032.8 acres were cleared and 3506.6 wooded. Troops on the march may
camp or bivouac in the woods with but little risk to the health of
the men, but in a sedentary camp the tents must be in the open.

[2] NOTE--The records of the War Department show that in August there
were 1568 cases of typhoid in the Division and General Hospitals;
there were probably as many more in the regiments.




_The Call to Arms_


Between February 15th, when the U. S. S. Maine was destroyed in the
harbor of Havana, and March 28th, 1898, when Congress received the
report of the Naval Board of Inquiry, declaring the Maine to have
been destroyed by an exterior explosion, public opinion in the United
States was crystalizing in favor of declaring war with Spain and
recognizing the independence of Cuba.

On March 16th a meeting of the officers of the Eighth Regiment
Infantry, M. V. M., was held in the Headquarters of the regiment at
Salem. The officers, with one exception, authorized the Colonel to
tender their services as part of any quota Massachusetts might be
called upon to furnish. Company commanders were directed to interview
each member of their companies and report to the Adjutant the number
of men ready to volunteer. The reports of the various company
commanders, show that by April 1st, all but eleven men had authorized
the Colonel to tender their services. It is said that the Eighth
was the first National Guard Regiment in the country ready, after a
careful canvass of its officers and men, to volunteer.

On March 29th resolutions declaring war with Spain were introduced
into both houses of Congress. Congress had appropriated $50,000,000
for national defence, and the Legislature of Massachusetts followed
with an appropriation of $500,000 to equip troops.

War was coming and troops were to be needed. This much was certain,
but no one could tell how the necessary troops would be raised.
It was rumored that the military advisors of the government were
divided in their councils, and that some favored the retention of
the Militia for local defence, and the organization of new regiments
of volunteers to fill the expected call. For weeks the Adjutant was
ready to tender the services of the Eighth as a militia, or volunteer
regiment, whichever way the call came. The tension was so great that
on April 22nd the following letter was sent to the Governor:--

  "Headquarters Eighth Regiment Infantry.
  Massachusetts Volunteer Militia,
  Salem, Mass., April 22, 1898.

  MAJ. GEN. SAMUEL DALTON,
  Adjutant General, State of Massachusetts,
  State House, Boston, Mass.

  Sir:--

  I have the honor to represent to the Commander-in-Chief that
  the officers and men of the Eighth Regiment are willing and
  anxious to respond to any call for volunteers, and I hereby
  tender the services of the Regiment, if agreeable to the wishes
  of the Commander-in-Chief, to form a part of any quota that
  Massachusetts may be called upon to furnish.

  Very respectfully,
  Your obedient servant,
  WILLIAM A. PEW, JR.
  Colonel."

The above letter was acknowledged by the following communication:--

  "Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
  Executive Department,
  Boston, Mass, April 22, 1898.

  COL. WILLIAM A. PEW, JR.,
  Headquarters Eighth Regiment Infantry, M. V. M.,
  Salem, Mass.

  My dear Sir:--

  I have this moment had placed in my hands your letter of April
  22nd addressed to Maj. Gen. Samuel Dalton, expressing to the
  Commander-in-Chief the willingness and desire of the officers and
  men of the Eighth Regiment to respond to any call for volunteers
  and tendering the services of the Regiment, if agreeable to the
  wishes of the Commander-in-Chief, to form a part of any quota
  that Massachusetts may be called upon to furnish.

  I appreciate highly the zeal and patriotism of your offer, which
  will be placed upon file for future reference.

  Very truly yours,
  ROGER WOLCOTT."

On April 23rd the President called for one hundred twenty-five
thousand volunteers, and on April 25th war was declared with Spain.
During the evening of the 25th, Governor Wolcott was notified by a
telegram from the Secretary of War, that the Massachusetts quota,
under the call of the President, would be four regiments of infantry,
and three batteries of heavy artillery. Nothing was yet decided how
these regiments should be raised.

The infantry organizations in Massachusetts Militia were at this
time five line regiments and two corps of cadets. This information
as to the Massachusetts quota increased the suspense, as it was
apparent, that even if militia regiments were accepted, all could
not go. About this time the newspapers published statements from the
Governor, which were construed to mean, the state militia would be
used for local defence, as there was much talk of a descent upon the
Massachusetts coast by Cevera's fleet, which was then rendezvouing at
the Cape Verde Islands.

The suspense of the militia was not relieved until late in the
afternoon of April 27th, when the Governor received a letter from
the Secretary of War, requesting him to furnish four regiments
of infantry to serve for the period of two years unless sooner
discharged. In his letter the Secretary of War expressed a desire
that as far as practicable, the National Guard be given preference.

To meet this summons to arms, the Governor, by an order issued April
28th, designated as the four infantry regiments to be offered the
privilege of volunteering under this call, the Second, Sixth, Eighth
and Ninth. The commanding officers of these regiments were required
to cause an individual canvass to be made of their subordinate
officers and enlisted men, to ascertain and make careful record of
those desiring to volunteer. These were to be held subject to future
orders and at the earliest possible day, mustered into the service of
the United States.

On the same evening that this communication was received from the
Secretary of War, the Governor notified the Colonel of the Eighth
Regiment to report to him in person the next morning at the State
House, Boston. Colonel William A. Pew, Jr. immediately notified all
the officers of the regiment to meet him at the State House the
following afternoon at 2 o'clock. The commanding officers of the four
regiments designated, to be given the privilege of volunteering, met
the Governor at the State House in the forenoon of April 28th, and
received their official orders. They were directed to recruit their
companies to seventy-four men, and were informed that the field,
staff, and company officers would be appointed by the Governor, upon
the recommendation of the commanding officer of each regiment.

At 2 o'clock in the afternoon, Colonel Pew met the officers of
the Eighth at the State House, and arranged the details for the
organization of the regiment. The various company commanders had
already received orders from Regimental Headquarters to secure a list
of recruits, so that if called into the active service, they would
have their companies at war strength. The militia companies at this
time were allowed sixty men in the State service.

From the State House, company commanders immediately proceeded to
their home stations, and began recruiting to seventy-four men.

Although the night of April 28th was stormy, and rain fell in
torrents, excitement was high, and the company armories of the Eighth
were filled with militiamen, and recruiting was brisk. There was no
difficulty in securing the additional men.

In about all the cities and towns immediately following the call for
troops, Volunteer Aid Societies or Relief Committees were formed at
mass meetings, and various sums of money were raised to equip the
volunteers or to look after their families.

On April 29th, the Eighth Regiment was ordered to report at the
State Camp Grounds at South Framingham, on Thursday, May 5th, at 11
o'clock, A. M. The camp was placed under the command of Col. E. P.
Clark, the senior officer.

From April 28th to May 5th, was a continuous round of excitement and
bustle in the armories.

The companies were ordered to assemble on Lowell Street near the
Union Station in Boston not later than 10.30, May 5th. The scenes
about the armories of the various companies on May 5th was most
pathetic, as the wives, mothers, or sweethearts of the men gathered
for the farewell. In every instance the companies were escorted to
the station by local or military bodies, and the demonstrations which
took place as the companies marched through the crowded streets had
not been duplicated since the call of President Lincoln was answered
in 1861.

At Newburyport, the public and parochial schools were given a half
holiday, and the streets were decorated with flags and bunting.
Company A was escorted to the railroad station by the Mayor and
members of the City Government, the Grand Army Post, and members
of the Fire Department. The streets were filled with thousands of
people, who displayed their enthusiasm by cheers and the waving of
flags and handkerchiefs. A field piece was fired at brief intervals
and the church bells and steam whistles joined in the chorus of God
speeds.

At Amesbury, the streets through which Company B passed, were packed
with humanity. Whistles of the factories were blown, bells were rung,
and there was a general outburst of enthusiasm. The company was
escorted to the train by the Grand Army Veterans and members of the
High School Battalion.

At Marblehead, cheering crowds greeted the members of Company C,
under the escort of the Grand Army Post and a delegation of citizens.
Previous to starting from the Armory, the Selectmen spoke words of
farewell to the soldiers.

In Lynn, patriotism was at fever heat. The factories and schools
closed, and thousands lined the streets. Flags were flying from all
staffs, and many were carried by the people along the line of march.
Companies D and I were escorted to the station by General Lander
Post, G. A. R., and the English and Classical High School Battalions.
The Mayor and members of the City Government reviewed the parade. At
Central Square, near the station, twenty thousand people gathered,
and as the train bearing the Lynn volunteers steamed out of the
station, there arose a mighty cheer for the soldier boys.

In Beverly, business was suspended, and the citizens turned out en
masse to bid good bye to Company E. The company was escorted by the
Grand Army Post, Fire Department, school children, and a cavalcade of
citizens.

At Haverhill, Company F and the Regimental Drum Corps were given a
most enthusiastic send off. The company was escorted by the Grand
Army Post and Sons of Veterans. Mayor Chase delivered a farewell
address at the City Hall, after which the line of march was taken to
the station, where a crowd, numbering fifteen thousand, witnessed
their departure.

At Gloucester, Company G marched through lanes of cheering citizens,
the escort consisting of the Grand Army Post, the Fourth of July
Committee, the High School Battalion, and the Sons of Veterans. The
procession was led by the Mayor. Hon. W. W. French presented the
Company with a silk flag on behalf of citizens, and the gift was
accepted by Captain Edward J. Horton for the company.

Salem witnessed scenes of enthusiasm as Company H marched away. The
streets were packed, and thousands of small flags were waved by the
cheering citizens as the company marched to the station, escorted by
the Second Corps of Cadets, Grand Army Post, Naval Veterans, Letter
Carriers and Clerks, the Salem Light Infantry Veteran Association,
the Veteran Firemen Association, and a barouche containing among
others, Francis D. Cahill, Salem's survivor of the Maine explosion.
The Mayor and the City Government reviewed the parade at City Hall,
and a large crowd packed the streets near the station to witness the
train, containing the members of the company, pull out for Boston.

In Danvers, the people were early astir to give Company K a rousing
farewell. It was escorted through the principal streets by a
cavalcade, the Grand Army Post, High School Cadets, and a body of
citizens.

Lawrence turned out in force to speed the departure of Company L. At
the Armory, Rev. Dr. H. E. Barnes offered prayer, after which the men
marched to the station escorted by the Grand Army Post and Battery
C. As the train bore the company out of the station, Battery C fired
a salute, and the whistles of the locomotives in the engine yard
mingled with the cheers that arose from thousands of throats.

At Somerville, on the evening before departure, Company M was
entertained by the citizens at Union Hall. The next morning they were
escorted to the station by a large company of citizens, the Grand
Army Posts, and members of the Relief Corps.

The reception of the regiment in Boston was equally enthusiastic. The
Evening Transcript described the scenes along the line of march as
follows:--

  "From 9 o'clock this morning until the order to march was given,
  the Union Station was filled with cheering thousands and
  marching companies. They came by different trains, according
  to the places from which they started. As the companies left
  the train, they formed in the train shed, and marched to Lowell
  Street, where the parade was formed, with the right of line
  resting on Causeway Street. At 10.50 o'clock the regiment had
  formed on Lowell Street. An orderly announced that all of the
  companies had arrived at their positions in the line. Colonel Pew
  gave the command, and the clear, shrill notes of the bugle echoed
  along the line. Just then the sun, which had been hidden behind
  gray and threatening clouds, broke out, and the men welcomed
  this as a good omen in their coming service. The regiment swung
  off to the tune of the 'Stars and Stripes Forever' by the Eighth
  Regiment Band. Half way down the line was the Fife and Drum Corps
  playing 'The Girl I Left Behind Me.' Lowell Street, Merrimac
  Streets, and in fact all of the streets about the Union Station
  were crowded by thousands, and the various companies were given
  a most enthusiastic reception all along the line of march, which
  was over the following streets:--Merrimac to Haymarket Square,
  Washington and School, Beacon, Arlington and Boylston Streets to
  Huntington Avenue, a special train being taken at the Huntington
  Avenue station of the Boston & Albany R. R.

  Far down Beacon Street could be seen the crowding thousands
  from a point of vantage on the State House steps; people were
  standing on tiptoe and craning their necks for a glimpse of
  the approaching troops. Presently the strains of martial music
  floated from below, mingled with the subdued and far away cheers
  which heralded the approach of the soldiers. The cheerings grew
  nearer and louder. One could catch now and again the air of the
  stirring march, and now the platoon of mounted police swung
  around the turn. On a chestnut horse at the head of the regiment,
  came Colonel William A. Pew, Jr. of Salem.

  The head of the line passed Park Street and approached the State
  House steps. The cheering grew continuous, and there was a great
  waving of flags and handkerchiefs. General Curtis Guild, Jr.
  stepped to the side of the railing and swung his hat, calling for
  three cheers for Colonel Pew. They were given with a will, the
  thousands packed outside of the police lines taking up the cry.
  Colonel Pew and his staff saluted, and the review was in progress.

  To none of the troops which have passed in review before Governor
  Wolcott and his staff at the State House, has there been given
  such a demonstration as that accorded to the Eighth Regiment
  this morning. It was shortly after 11 o'clock when the head of
  the line reached the corner of Park and Beacon streets, and from
  the moment that the first company had passed in review until the
  last of the batch of raw recruits which brought up the rear had
  gone from view, there was one continuous round of applause and
  cheering. General Curtis Guild, Jr. led in the cheering at the
  State House, and every time that he waved his hat there was an
  answering thunder of cheers. There were cheers for Colonel Pew,
  for the Eighth Regiment, and Essex County. Old Glory was cheered
  to the echo, and the gathered multitude was not too hoarse to
  give three and a tiger for the raw recruits who brought up the
  rear. Governor Wolcott and his staff reviewed the parade as
  usual, from the lower steps at the entrance to the State House.
  Above the upper steps were packed with gaily dressed women and
  enthusiastic men. The balconies were crowded, and the streets in
  all directions, as far as the eye could see, were jammed with
  crowding thousands. No more soldierly looking body of men had
  passed the State Capitol for years than the Eighth Regiment,
  which passed in review on its way to the front this morning.

  The Commanding Officer and Staff were mounted, this being the
  first regiment parading with these officers mounted. The men were
  in heavy marching order, with rations for twenty-four hours in
  their haversacks. Officers and men of the whole regiment wore
  their campaign hats, and this gave them a businesslike appearance
  that seemed to say,--'We are going to the front to work.'"




_Muster In_


Shortly after 2 o'clock on the afternoon of May 5th, the Eighth
marched onto the State Camp Grounds at South Framingham. The Second
and Ninth Regiments turned out with a hearty welcome as the Fife and
Drum Corps swung through the gate playing "Teddy Was a Sojer."

When the four volunteer regiments were mustered into the service,
they dispensed with bands. The Eighth, however, took its drum corps,
which as early as March 16th had volunteered, through the Drum Major.
Drum Major Thomas was and still is (1908) an institution in the
regiment. No one remembers when he was not Drum Major. Rumor says he
was drummer boy at Bunker Hill, Lundy Lane and Chepultepec, and all
know he marched with Sherman to the sea. Invincible against fever and
malaria, he is never sick. Always busy, never complaining or tired,
he is a cheerful regimental inspiration. Time does not change him,
except as it adds new glories in the form of service stripes. His
reveille from Low Scotch, through Austrian, Hessian, Double Drag,
Dutch, to Quick Scotch, is always welcome as an eye opener. It is
a tradition that the Colonel gets up before reveille for the mere
pleasure of seeing Thomas lead, and of watching the drum sticks
rattle. It is certainly true that the regiment was never late when
Thomas led the band.

Camp was soon established. The Second Regiment, which assembled May
3rd, occupied the right of the line; next came the Ninth, which came
into camp May 4th, followed by the Eighth. On the left was reserved a
position for the Sixth, which was to assemble the next day. Adjutant
Edward H. Eldredge was detailed as Brigade Adjutant General, and his
place on the Regimental Staff was filled by Lieutenant Thomas D.
Barroll of L Company.

Dame Rumor was soon busy spreading reports that the United States,
personified by impartial and inexorable army surgeons, was rejecting
men as unfit for foreign service. Already ten officers of the Second
had been rejected for physical deficiencies. What pledges, words and
wills had been unable to accomplish, the dread of a full service
medical examination accomplished, and officers and men, who for years
had smoked or broken minor rules of health, stopped on the moment to
brace themselves for this ordeal.

The officers were ordered before the doctors the day after arriving
in camp, and at intervals of twenty minutes they reported in groups
of threes. Major Dudley B. Purbeck, who had recently suffered from
a serious illness, was rejected. There was much excitement in the
streets of Company C when it was reported that Captain James Tucker,
Lieutenants Edgar J. Marshall and Frank B. Denning had failed to
pass. The Selectmen and influential citizens of Marblehead were
appealed to, and in some way secured a re-examination and a reversal
of the finding in the case of Lieutenant Denning, who was finally
mustered and commissioned as Captain.

After the officers had passed, the enlisted men faced the surgeons,
the companies going up in alphabetical order. Many men were rejected
and sent home. It was the rule not to muster a company until it had a
full complement of qualified officers and men. The process was slow,
and it was not until May 10th that the first company of the Eighth
was mustered, followed in rapid succession by the others. The last
company was mustered May 11th, and the Colonel sworn in.

The ceremony of mustering was interesting and impressive. Companies
were marched to Brigade Headquarters, with the men arranged
alphabetically in line. Facing the colors, taking off their hats,
and raising their right hands, after roll call, they subscribed the
following oath administered by Captain Erastus M. Weaver, U. S. A.:--

  "All and each of you do solemnly swear that you will bear true
  faith and allegiance to the United States of America, and that
  you will serve them honestly and faithfully against all their
  enemies whomsoever, and that you will obey the President of the
  United States, and the orders of the officers appointed over you,
  according to the rules and articles of war, so help you God."

There was much pleasant rivalry between the Eighth and Ninth
Regiments in a race to be first mustered in the United States
service. The last company of the Ninth was mustered in just before
the last company of the Eighth, and the Colonel of the Eighth being
the last officer in the Regiment to be mustered into the service, was
mustered in before the Colonel of the Ninth. The important question
was never settled, which regiment was first mustered into the United
States service.

After a company was mustered into the service, its Captain was given
a copy of the Articles of War, and directed to read them to his
company. From this tiresome reading of all the articles at once,
a company wag said it was the general impression that the whole
regiment was ordered by the President to suffer death or such other
penalty as the court martial should prescribe.

The designation of the Regiments as finally mustered into the
United States service, early became a matter of interest. It was
rumored that in as much as Massachusetts sent sixty-two regiments
to the Civil War, the numbering of the regiments in the Spanish War
was to begin where the numbering of the Civil War regiments left
off. In that case the Eighth would be known as the Sixty-Third or
Sixty-Fourth Regiment. This enumeration was followed in some states.
The designation of the regiment was left to Governor Wolcott, who
published as the official name, Eighth Regiment Massachusetts
Infantry, U. S. V.

The facings on the uniform was immediately changed from blue to
white, and a collar device adopted consisting of crossed rifles with
the figure eight above, and the abbreviation "Mass." below the rifles.

During the stay at Framingham everyone was busy, recruits were
drilled, the regiment was exercised in striking and pitching tents,
company cooks and kitchen police were made familiar with the
army ration, battalions and companies were drilled, guards were
instructed, and the usual parade and daily ceremonies held. The days
were crisp and clear; the evenings, however, were chilly, but the
dampness was dissipated by roaring camp fires on the parade, about
which the soldiers clustered until taps.

It was the intention of the Adjutant-General of Massachusetts to
have the regiments leave the State in order of the seniority of the
Colonels. This would give third place to the Eighth.

On May 13th, the Adjutant-General of the United States Army
telegraphed the United States mustering officer at South Framingham
to notify the Colonels of mustered regiments to report direct to
the War Department when their regiments would be ready to leave the
State. This notice was sent to the Headquarters of the Eighth and
Ninth. Colonel Pew immediately telegraphed the War Department that
the Eighth was ready to leave at once, and in a few hours received a
telegraphic order to take the regiment to Chickamauga Park, Georgia.
Owing to the lack of railroad transportation, it was impossible for
the Regiment to get away until May 16th.

Saturday, May 14th, was Eighth Regiment day at Camp Dewey. On Friday
evening as soon as the soldiers were notified that the regiment was
to hold itself ready to move at once, they rushed to the telegraph
station and sent word to their friends at home that if they wished
to see them, they should come to Camp Dewey in the morning, as it
was expected that the Regiment would be on its way south by Saturday
night.

Early in the morning, the friends of the soldiers began to arrive on
the field, and every train brought crowds until by noon there were
hundreds from every town and city having a company in the regiment.
As the families of the soldiers came into camp, they brought with
them boxes and bundles of the good things which a New England
housewife knows so well how to cook, and during the hours between
drills, there were family picnics all about the camp.

In the afternoon, Governor Wolcott and some of his staff visited the
camp to present the officers with their commissions in the United
States service. After passing in review before His Excellency, the
Regiment formed three sides of a hollow square, with officers in
the center. The Governor and his party formed a fourth side. The
square was surrounded by friends of the Regiment, who covered half of
the great parade ground. The remarks of His Excellency were deeply
impressive, and at times he visibly showed the emotion which he felt.
In a voice audible to everyone on the field, Governor Wolcott said:--

  "Men of Essex and Middlesex:--Two days ago your parting cheers
  made sweet music in the ears of your comrades of the Second
  Regiment as they left the Commonwealth in the high service of the
  United States of America. Today you obey the same summons, and
  are ready, as they were, to endure hardship and suffering in the
  same exalted cause.

  Your cause, men of Massachusetts, is a just and righteous one. I
  greatly misread the heart of this great nation if the historian
  of the future shall not record that this war was entered upon by
  a mighty and free people, who had heard, as long as they could
  endure them, the sighs and groans of an oppressed neighboring
  population, bending beneath the tyranny of a nation of the old
  world.

  It is to set free the oppressed and to bind up their wounds that
  you now enter the service of the United States. You will find
  yourselves shoulder to shoulder with the men of other states.
  Let there be no other rivalry than generous emulation, that you
  shall show that the men of Massachusetts, where valor calls for
  sacrifice, or where the duty of the soldier calls for prompt
  obedience and good discipline, are second to the sons of no other
  Commonwealth and no other State in the United States of America.

  You leave with the prayers and the confidence of the people
  of this Commonwealth. Officially, as the Governor of the
  Commonwealth, I bid you Godspeed! And may the God of battles
  bring you victory and an honorable peace!

  It is now my privilege and honor to present to the officers of
  the Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, United States Volunteers, the
  commissions under which they enter the service of the United
  States."

After presenting the commissions, Governor Wolcott said:--

  "Colonel Pew:--You have a regiment worthy of the Commonwealth of
  Massachusetts and of the service of the United States of America."

The following officers received their commissions from Governor
Wolcott on this occasion:--


Colonel--WILLIAM A. PEW, JR. of Salem.

Lieutenant Colonel--EDWIN W. M. BAILEY of Amesbury.

Majors--WILLIAM STOPFORD of Beverly; FRANK A. GRAVES of Marblehead;
EDWARD H. ELDREDGE of Boston.

Adjutant--LIEUTENANT THOMAS D. BARROL of Boston.

Quartermaster--LIEUTENANT CHARLES F. WONSON of Gloucester.

Surgeon--MAJOR WILLIAM COGSWELL of Salem.

Assistant Surgeons--LIEUTENANT THOMAS L. JENKINS of Topsfield;
LIEUTENANT FRANK P. T. LOGAN of Gloucester.

Chaplain--REV. GEORGE D. SANDERS of Gloucester.

Company A, Newburyport--Captain, ALEXANDER G. PERKINS; First
Lieutenant, GEORGE W. LANGDON; Second Lieutenant, GEORGE H. DOW.

Company B, Amesbury--Captain, HORACE S. BEAN; First Lieutenant, JOHN
M. PETTINGILL; Second Lieutenant, FRANK STINSON.

Company C, Marblehead--Captain, FRANK B. DENNING; First Lieutenant,
LINVILLE H. WARDWELL; Second Lieutenant, FREDERIC P. SMITH.

Company D, Lynn--Captain, CHARLES T. HILLIKER; First Lieutenant,
THOMAS J. COBY; Second Lieutenant, WILLIAM F. YOUNG.

Company E, Beverly--Captain, FREDERICK W. STOPFORD; First Lieutenant,
CHARLES H. FARNHAM; Second Lieutenant, FRANCISCO A. DESOUSA.

Company F, Haverhill--Captain, WILLIAM C. DOW; First Lieutenant, PER
JUSTUS SWANBERG; Second Lieutenant, DAVID E. JEWELL.

Company G, Gloucester--Captain, EDWARD J. HORTON; First Lieutenant,
CHARLES M. MCISAAC; Second Lieutenant, JAMES C. NUTT.

Company H, Salem--Captain, WALTER P. NICHOLS; First Lieutenant,
GEORGE N. JEWETT; Second Lieutenant, AUGUSTUS G. REYNOLDS.

Company I, Lynn--Captain, JOHN E. WILLIAMS; First Lieutenant, FRANCIS
H. DOWNEY; Second Lieutenant, WILLIAM H. PERRY.

Company K, Danvers--Captain, A. PRESTON CHASE; First Lieutenant,
HENRY W. FRENCH; Second Lieutenant, STEPHEN N. BOND.

Company L, Lawrence--Captain, JAMES FORBES; First Lieutenant, JAMES
H. CRAIG; Second Lieutenant, ROLAND H. SHERMAN.

Company M, Somerville--Captain, HERBERT W. WHITTEN; First Lieutenant,
GEORGE I. CANFIELD; Second Lieutenant, FREDERICK W. PIERCE.


From May 14th to May 16th the Regiment waited, uncertain when its
train transportation would arrive. Shortly after noon on the 16th,
camp was struck. It was a damp and dreary day. There was no large
crowd to cheer their departure, as the home stations of the companies
were too remote, and the movement too sudden for the friends of the
regiment to see them off. Late in the afternoon the regiment passed
in review before Governor Wolcott, and took up its line of march
for the railroad station. There it was quickly embarked in three
sections. Each battalion had a section consisting of eleven cars,
one for baggage, one for guard quarters, and two for each company. A
Wagner sleeper was furnished on each section for the accommodation of
the officers. The first section pulled out of the station at South
Framingham at 6 o'clock, followed shortly afterwards by the others.
The last section left at 6.30. The three sections carried 47 officers
and 896 men.




_Chickamauga_


The route of the regiment to Chickamauga was through the valleys of
the Hudson and Shennandoah. The cities of New York, Philadelphia,
Baltimore, Washington and Knoxville, were seen in passing, but stops
were only made to allow the officers to obtain meals for themselves
and coffee for the men. The Government furnished travel rations
for the men consisting of hard tack, canned corned beef, beans and
tomatoes, and a money allowance for coffee. In their year of service,
no one in the regiment ever discovered a use for canned tomatoes as a
travel ration.

During the trip hard tack circulated as souvenirs among the girls
at the various stops, usually inscribed with the donor's name and
address, and given in exchange for pieces of ribbon and other
feminine favors. Enthusiastic crowds were in evidence at all the
stations, where they gathered to see the troop trains pass. The men
were confined to the cars, but managed to carry on many flirtations
and make exchanges through the windows. Every day they were taken
out at some stop for a run around or a bit of setting up exercise,
and once the Third Battalion took advantage of a mountain stream for
bathing purposes.

On the morning of May 19th the regiment awoke to find itself in the
Citico Freight Yard, just outside the city of Chattanooga, together
with other troop trains containing the men of the Twelfth New York,
and the Twenty-First Kansas, with whom the regiment subsequently
brigaded. After spending a day in the freight yard, the sections
began late in the afternoon to slowly travel the fourteen miles
between Chattanooga and Chickamauga Park. At Battle Station the
battalions disembarked, the baggage was piled near the track and
left under guard, while the regiment enjoyed its first bivouac on a
neighboring hill.

The Colonel reported to General Brooke and was told that a camp site
would be assigned and transportation for the baggage furnished the
following day.

Chickamauga Park is a National Reservation in the northwestern
corner of the State of Georgia, embracing some ten squares miles of
territory, and commemorates the battle which was fought there in
1863. The park is wooded, with here and there open fields. Much of
the underbrush had been cleared away, and good dirt roads constructed
by the Government. The water supply consisted of a few dozen wells,
which had supported a small farming population before the Government
purchased the land. The soil is clayey above a limestone formation,
which frequently outcrops and renders digging difficult. The months
of May and June are liable to be pleasant and dry, but in July and
August, abundant rain turns the ground where vegetation is worn
off, into a mire of sticky mud. On one side, the Park is bounded
by Chickamauga Creek, meaning in the Indian tongue, "The River of
Death", and into this creek the whole surface of the Park drains. The
Government intended to organize on this ground the First, Third and
Sixth Army Corps, and at one time assembled about 55,000 men for this
purpose. The camp was named, Camp George H. Thomas, in honor of the
gallant soldier who rendered conspicuous service to the Federal cause
in the battle of Chickamauga.

The Eighth Regiment was assigned to the Second Brigade, Third
Division, First Army Corps. As Colonel William A. Pew, Jr. was the
senior Colonel in the three regiments comprising this brigade, he was
assigned to the command, pending the arrival of a Brigadier General,
and the command of the Eighth Regiment devolved upon Lieutenant
Colonel Edwin W. M. Bailey. Colonel Pew remained in command of the
Brigade until June 29th, when he was succeeded by General Waites of
Texas. Lieutenant Thomas D. Barroll, the Regimental Adjutant, and
Lieutenant Charles F. Wonson, the Regimental Quartermaster, were
detailed to Brigade Headquarters, and acted respectively as Adjutant
General and Brigade Quartermaster. Their places in the regiment
were filled by the detail of Lieutenant George W. Langdon, Acting
Regimental Adjutant, and Lieutenant George I. Canfield, Acting
Regimental Quartermaster, while Lieutenant Augustus G. Reynolds acted
as Regimental Commissary.

The Third Division of the First Army Corps encamped on the Alexander
Bridge road, near the southeastern corner of the Park, and about
three miles from the railroad station. The camp of the Eighth was
located in the woods, which were not dense, but more than sufficient
for shade purposes. The tents of the Commanding Officer and his staff
faced the west. Fifty paces in front of Headquarters were the tents
of the line officers, and fifty paces in front of the quarters of the
line officers were the heads of the Company streets. The tents of the
men faced south, and were five paces apart. The Company streets were
thirty paces wide. Thirty paces from the last tent in the Company
street were the Company kitchens, and fifty paces in rear of the
kitchens, were the Company sinks. The Eighth had the longest camp
front of any Regiment in the Park, and later when sickness began
to appear in the various camps, the wisdom of this arrangement was
apparent.

Until May 23rd, when wagons and mules were issued to the Regiment,
water was scarce. Every farm well in the vicinity was under guard,
and had a line of details waiting for a turn at the pump handle.
The wells were pumped dry many times daily. The details remained
in line waiting for them to fill up. Chickamauga Creek was already
contaminated by drainage, and long expeditions were made to obtain
enough water for drinking and cooking purposes.

With the issuing of transportation, water was hauled for all purposes
from the Blue Spring, some five miles from camp, until the Government
constructed a pipe line and brought water to the vicinity of every
camp. This pipe line water was never used in the Regiment for
drinking, and during the whole stay of the Regiment at Chickamauga,
all drinking water was daily brought from the Blue Spring.

The lack of water led to the circulation of many absurd rumors at
home. It was reported that the wells had been poisoned by the Spanish
spies, and that some had been detected in the act and shot. The water
famine was much exaggerated in the reports from Chickamauga. The
regiment undoubtedly suffered much inconvenience at first, but not
greater than should have been expected from the hurried manner in
which the troops were brought together.

For some time the army mule was a source of entertainment and worry
to the regiment. The Government issued to each regiment twenty-seven
wagons and one hundred and eight mules. Previous to this issue, these
mules were assembled in a large corral near the railroad station.
Usually, a detail of four men was sent to draw a wagon, four mules
and harnesses. The mules were turned over to this detail, together
with various parts of harnesses and a wagon, as they came from the
factory. It was the duty of the detail to hold the mules and at the
same time assemble harnesses and wagon. This was new work for most
of the men, and the outfits were brought into camp after many sad
experiences. It was not unusual for the detail to start from the
corral driving in a careful manner, but after going a mile or two
without mishap, the desire to speed a little overcame this caution,
and the mules were urged to a trot or canter. As few of these animals
had been broken, the first turn of a road presented an opportunity
for a spill.

There was such a turn near the camp of the Eighth, and many of the
men used to sit under the trees watching the details from other
regiments navigate their mules around the bend. Often mules would
continue on a straight course into the woods, and bid up when some
tree separated the leaders and threw them down, with the wheel
mules and wagon piled on top. This performance was at first a daily
occurrence, and apparently resulted in no injury to the mules or men.

Another source of amusement was to hire the darkies who loafed about
the camps, to break the mules. They were usually ridden bare back,
and succeeded in throwing their riders several times before they
would submit.

The mule quarters at first consisted of a cable stretched from tree
to tree, to which the mules were fastened by halters. This was the
practice in all the camps, and every night each regiment lost from
ten to twelve mules. The mules usually wandered around the park until
appropriated by some Quartermaster to make up his quota.

After submitting for a few nights to this loss, Lieutenant Colonel
Bailey determined to construct a corral of rails, and for this
purposes obtained permission to use the top rails of various fences
along the Alexander road. This work of construction took place on
a moonlight night, and in the morning it was discovered that the
rail fences for a long distance had disappeared, and a large area in
the camp of the Eighth was surrounded with a Virginia fence some 12
feet high. The detail charged with the work of construction stoutly
maintained, when explanation was demanded, that none of them had
taken anything but "top rails". With this improvised stable the
Quartermaster of the Eighth was able to maintain his supply of mules.

There were two entrances to this corral at which sentinels were
maintained, with orders to allow any stray mules to go in, but none
to come out. Every morning an extra surplus of mules was found in the
corral.

The wagon master, who was a civilian employee, and had been hired
by the Quartermaster on account of his experience with mules, soon
had his pick of all the mules in the Park. His first duty in the
morning was a readjustment of mule property. Any surplus was held
and delivered to inquiring Quartermasters who had lost mules. As
all mules look alike to most Quartermasters, it came to pass in the
course of time, that the wagon master of the Eighth had by far the
best mule teams of any Regiment. It was, in fact, a selection from
the mules of fifty odd regiments.

Apparently no one suspected this process of eliminating poor mules,
and the corral of the Eighth was looked upon as a public benefaction,
where lost mules could usually be found and identified. The process
of identification was directed and controlled by the experienced
wagon master of the Eighth.

During May the evenings were delightfully cool in contrast with the
heat of the day. Work finished, with parade and after supper, the men
collected in groups to sing, listen to the drum corps, or gossip
about the future of the regiment. Rumors of immediate moves were
always in circulation. It was generally believed that the First Corps
was destined to invest Havana in the fall, but this belief was often
shaken by rumors of orders to go to Manila, Honolulu, Santiago, or
Porto Rico. The regiment was always expecting marching orders in the
immediate future.

Almost every large congregation contains some men who need a free
application of soap and water. In a camp where many men are herded
together, the personal cleanliness of each soldier is a factor in the
general health.

As soon as the pipe line was established, and water was abundant,
orders were issued in regard to bathing, and were enforced by
weekly inspections. The men were required to strip in quarters,
and were examined by the surgeons. The first inspection disclosed
an unfortunate who had secreted on his person, a liberal amount of
Georgia real estate.

Eight husky sergeants, armed with fresh stable brooms and soap, were
detailed to accompany the victim to the stand pipe. The detail, clad
only in their birthday clothes, marched through the camp, conducting
the victim in solemn procession, to the place of execution. The novel
sight of the naked detail and prisoner attracted many spectators
from the regiment, who observed the enforced bathing, and materially
assisted by their advice and presence the cleansing operation. The
man was washed as he had never been washed before.

The result of this public exhibition deterred others from
disregarding bathing regulations. During the service of the regiment,
no other man was ever reported as the result of these inspections,
for personal uncleanliness.

At midnight on May 28th, the first death occurred in the regiment.
Private Herbert O. Burnham, Company D, passed away at the Regimental
Hospital. He contracted pneumonia at Framingham, was taken sick on
the train, and gradually grew worse until the end came. The next
night, a second member of the command obeyed the summons and was
mustered out by death. Clarence L. Bartol of Company C, died at the
Regimental Hospital of heart disease. The two deaths coming so close
together, produced an effect upon the men, and caused them to realize
more fully the duties of the service upon which they had entered.

The regiment early established a club for the enlisted men where they
could loaf and make small purchases. These clubs were authorized
by Army Regulations, and known as Post Exchanges or Canteens. They
were managed by a council of officers. The profits on all sales went
to the men. Regular dividends were declared and paid to company
commanders, and were accounted for by them to the government, as a
part of their company fund. Canteen dividends could be used only to
improve the ration or condition of the men. The sale of beer and
light wines was permitted.

The Eighth carried on its list of Canteen supplies, draught beer,
which was furnished by a Chattanooga brewery, together with a supply
of ice sufficient to keep the beer cool. This was the only supply of
ice in camp, and the only place where a cool drink could be had.

In close proximity to the Canteen, was the Y. M. C. A. tent, which
offered another home for the enlisted men where they could read,
write letters, play games, and meet for social or religious purposes.
The most excellent young gentlemen in charge, viewed with disapproval
the sale of beer in the rival club. The beer was also condemned
by the surgeons, on the ground that it was not up to standard in
quality, and that the poor quality of the beer aggravated intestinal
troubles.

One day at mess the Commanding Officer entered into an agreement
with the Y. M. C. A. representative, that the sale of beer should be
prohibited at the Canteen as long as the Y. M. C. A. furnished for
the enlisted men a barrel of distilled ice water in front of their
tent. The Regimental Quartermaster furnished daily transportation to
Chattanooga where barrels of distilled water and ice were purchased
from the brewery company, and duly installed by the Y. M. C. A.
This supply was maintained during the time the regiment remained at
Chickamauga. The water and ice cost as much as beer, but the expense
was borne by contributions solicited by the Y. M. C. A. manager from
the various friends of temperance in the north.

This substitution of water for beer gave the Colonel some notoriety
as a temperance reformer, and caused him to receive much advice about
running the regiment.

One lady who had devoted fifty years to the cause of temperance,
wrote a poem which she sent to the Colonel and requested him to have
the men learn it by heart and recite it in unison as part of the
ceremony at evening parade.

Another friend of the cause sent a few thousand printed pledges,
with the advice that the men be required to sign a few pledges each
day and carry them in their various pockets. She thought every time
anything was taken from a pocket, a pledge would come out, and
stimulate by its sight, each man to renewed interest to the cause of
temperance.

The old battleground offered opportunities to the souvenir hunters,
and many bullets, pieces of shells and rifles were picked up and sent
home. Another craze was collecting State buttons from the uniforms of
volunteers from various states. These buttons treated to a gold wash
and attached to a belt, were favorite souvenirs for sweethearts.

In addition to his duties as Battalion Commander, Major Edward H.
Eldredge was detailed as Division Inspector of Rifle Practice. Under
his supervision a rifle range was opened near the Alexander Bridge,
and twenty-seven targets were installed. Three targets were assigned
to each regiment of the Division for daily use. Lieutenant George
W. Langdon of Company A, acted as Inspector, and supervised the
regimental work at this range. Near the end of July, a division rifle
match was shot, in which the following scores were made:--

  Eighth Massachusetts,        481
  First New Hampshire,         474
  Twelfth New York,            473
  Twelfth Minnesota,           457
  Fifth Pennsylvania,          457
  Twenty-First Kansas,         456
  Second Missouri,             436
  First South Carolina,        409
  Ninth Pennsylvania,          409

The war strength of a company in the United States service was 106
enlisted men. Under the first call, Massachusetts was required
to furnish three batteries of Heavy Artillery. Influence was at
once brought to bear upon the authorities at Washington to accept
the First Heavy Artillery as a Regiment of twelve batteries. To
accomplish this and keep within the quota allowed Massachusetts,
infantry companies were cut down to 74 men. To this extent the four
infantry regiments which were raised for foreign service, were
crippled to increase the strength of the coast guard.

Upon the second call for volunteers, it was decided to raise the
infantry companies to full war strength of 106 men, and about the
first of June the Eighth was ordered to send a recruiting detail
of three officers and twelve men to Massachusetts for recruiting
purposes. The officers in charge of this detail were Major William
Stopford, Captain Herbert W. Whitten of Company M, and Lieutenant
Henry W. French of Company K. The detail left Chattanooga on June
8th. The first batch of new recruits arrived at Chickamauga on June
25th, from which time until after the 4th of July, recruits arrived
daily.

The average recruit who responds to the first call for volunteers, is
usually an all around better man than the average recruit obtained
upon subsequent calls. The interference with the original Government
plan of raising four full regiments, not only weakened the regiment
at first, but later lowered its morale by introducing a poorer class
of men than could have been obtained if the companies had recruited
to a full strength at their home stations under the first stimulus of
war.

On June 12th the regiment had its first experience with a Southern
rain storm. After a long dry spell, the heavens opened, and the
floods descended. Innocent looking gullies became rushing brooks,
which soon overflowed their banks and inundated many canvas homes.
After the storm, a system of drainage was inaugurated, and the men
were set to work on a main drain and connecting trenches, constructed
on lines taught by experience.

In the wake of the storm, and as it were, a silver lining to the
clouds, came Paymaster James C. Barr of the Eighth Massachusetts
Infantry, M. V. M., with $17,500. from the State of Massachusetts
in payment of the men for the time they had served at the Framingham
camp. This was the first pay the regiment received, and the paymaster
was welcomed like flowers in the spring. He was met at the railroad
station by an armed party and escorted to camp, where his little
fortune was safely guarded until distributed in payment to the men.

On June 22nd Captain Walter H. Nichols of Company H resigned, making
the first break among the officers of the regiment.

On June 26th the camp was stirred to excitement by reason of an order
transferring the regiment to the First Brigade, First Division,
First Army Corps. The First Brigade was composed of the Eighth
Massachusetts, Second Wisconsin, and Fifth Illinois Regiments, and
was commanded by General Oswald Ernst. The division was commanded by
General J. M. Wilson. The Brigade was expected to move in a few days
to Newport News, where it was to take transports for Santiago. Camp
took on new life and excitement. All superfluous baggage was packed
for storage or home shipment. The excitement lasted a number of days,
but the regiment was doomed to disappointment, as the order was
countermanded and the regiment restored to its former place in the
Third Division.

July 4th was observed as a holiday. Congressman William H. Moody of
the Sixth Massachusetts District, who was spending a few days in
camp, delivered a patriotic address. A program of sports had been
arranged for the day, but the arrival of the U. S. Paymaster caused
the games to be called off. About $45,000 was paid to the regiment,
the men being paid from May 5th to June 30th. Many of the men took
advantage of the arrival of the money for a trip to Chattanooga,
where they passed the remainder of the day visiting the city or
Lookout Mountain. In the evening there was a mammoth bonfire in camp,
red fire was burned, and the drum corps gave a concert of patriotic
airs, in celebration of the victory of Sampson over the fleet of
Cevera off Santiago, the news of which was received that afternoon.

As the summer advanced, and the heat increased, reveille was sounded
at 4.30 and drills were held at a correspondingly early hour, so that
by the middle of the morning, all drills were over.

Soon after arriving in camp, the brigade was practiced in extended
order and the use of cover. This drill was known to the men as
"snake drill." Major Parker, of the Twelfth New York, a Regular Army
officer, acted as instructor at first. Before many weeks the regiment
became proficient in advancing on a position, and at the same time
taking advantage of natural cover. On several occasions the regiment
gave exhibitions for the benefit of officers of other organizations.

The evening parade was usually witnessed by many spectators. The
field where it was held was near the camps of the Third Army Corps,
and the men from this organization usually assembled to watch the
ceremony. The drum corps had been increased to forty-seven pieces,
and became celebrated for its military marches.

The men, early in the summer, discarded the blue uniform for brown
canvas, and with the ponchos worn white side out in a yoke from
the left shoulder, presented in ranks a natty and business-like
appearance. Their drill and marching was excellent, and upon all
ceremonies and reviews they created a most favorable impression.

On July 8th Captain Jacob C. R. Peabody arrived in camp and assumed
command of Company H. On July 11th Assistant Surgeon Thomas L.
Jenkins resigned.

Late on July 14th, news was received that Santiago had fallen. A
celebration was promptly inaugurated. The three regiments in the
brigade interchanged marching calls, headed by their band or field
music. As the Eighth marched through the camp of the Twelfth New
York singing patriotic songs, they were received with a novel
illumination, a man stood at the entrance of each tent holding a
lighted candle. In the camp of the Twenty-First Kansas, speeches
were made by the Colonels of both regiments, after which the Eighth
returned to its camp.

On July 21st the camp was again stirred by the report that the
regiment had been selected for Porto Rico, and would embark in a few
days. There was much activity in camp securing requisitions for the
men. General Brooke, who commanded the First Corps, left for Porto
Rico, and some of the regiments of the corps reached that Island
before the order was countermanded.

The dull routine of camp life, repeated disappointments in orders
to move, continued excessive heat, rain and mud, and the prevalence
of camp diseases, were fast impairing the efficiency of the First
Corps. General Breckenridge who succeeded General Wade in command,
immediately planned to break the monotony by a practice march. The
Third Division was ordered on a march into Tennessee, and a detail
was sent in advance to secure camp sites.

Pending this general movement, the Eighth was granted permission to
make a short march to Pea Vine Ridge. The start was made at daybreak
on July 19th along the Ringgold Pike, which had been traveled by
Sherman in his march to Atlanta. The morning was spent in advanced
guard work. The farmers along the route cherished unpleasant memories
of Northern troops, and spent their time guarding live stock while
the regiment remained in the vicinity. Camp was made at noon near
the Craven House, and the afternoon was devoted to play. Many of the
men dammed a mountain brook and spent the afternoon splashing in its
pools.

The Craven House was occupied by an old sailor from Newburyport,
Massachusetts, who had ended his sea days many years before, and had
settled with a Georgia wife in the Pea Vine Valley. The old gentleman
was filled with enthusiasm to see the regiment, when he learned it
was from Massachusetts, and had a company from old Newburyport.
Unfortunately Company A had been left in Chickamauga as a camp
guard. After the camp was established, the Colonel called to pay his
respects. The excitement of the day had been too much for the old
gentleman, and he was found stricken with apoplexy.

The neighbors were too busy watching their property to render
assistance, and a detail from the regiment cared for the old
gentleman until he died that night.

As the day wore on and no raids were made by the Northern troops upon
barns or hen houses, the farmers allowed their curiosity to overcome
their fears, and visited camp. They were soon selling peaches, butter
milk and sweet potato pies to the troops. These pies were christened
"rubbernecks" by the men, and were held in light esteem, although
heavy as lead.

On July 23rd all the state knapsacks were condemned. They were little
box affairs, covered with enamel leather, and had seen service at
many a Framingham muster. They were piled at the head of each company
street and burned. Blanket bags were later issued and were more
acceptable. The tents brought from Massachusetts had been earlier
condemned as unserviceable, and were replaced by a new issue.

August 1st, Lieutenant George N. Jewett of Company H resigned.

On August 9th the regiment was presented with a new set of colors.
During its term of service it had three sets, two furnished by
Massachusetts, and one drawn from the Government Quartermaster's
department. The Regimental flag furnished by the Quartermaster's
department, bore the coat of arms of the United States upon a blue
field. This flag was rarely carried, and is the only one of its
kind in the collection of flags carried by Massachusetts regiments,
preserved at the State House.

By the middle of August the camp in the woods was water logged.
Continual rain had saturated the soil. The drains took care of
surface water, but as there was no seepage through the clay the
drains were powerless to carry off the mass of water imprisoned in
the soil, and for which evaporation was the only escape. Rain and
evaporation were in equilibrium. The mud on the legs of the men
like mercury in a thermometer, registered the fluctuation from this
equilibrium. Ordinary rubbers were useless, and sometimes rubber
boots were inundated.

Although the Government had furnished no lumber for tent floors,
the men had quite generally appropriated means to raise their beds
above the ground. The larceny of boards was encouraged as a sanitary
virtue. A few buildings which the Park authorities cherished as
ancient landmarks, about which the tide of the great battle ebbed and
flowed in 1863, has entirely disappeared. The companies of the Third
Battalion had purchased lumber at Chattanooga and constructed tent
floors. The quarters of the enlisted men were on the highest ridge
and were less exposed. The quarters of the Colonel and Staff were
approachable only through a sea of liquid mud, and were shifted onto
higher ground.

Application was repeatedly made for permission to change the camp.
The order for a change came just before the regiment moved to
Lexington. The First Battalion was the only unit to occupy the new
camp, which was located in an open field on the eastern side of the
Alexander Bridge road.

On August 19th Lieutenant Roland H. Sherman of Company L, resigned
and was discharged.

In order to fill the vacancies in the line officers of the regiment,
the following promotions were made while at Chickamauga: Second
Lieutenant Augustus G. Reynolds was promoted to first lieutenant in
Company H, and First Sergeant Thomas O. H. Pineau of that company was
commissioned second lieutenant. First Sergeant Eugene Larrivee, of
Company L, was commissioned second lieutenant in that company.

On August 21st orders were received to furlough all sick men, as
the regiment was to leave Chickamauga. Some two hundred furloughs
were issued. On the night of August 22nd a huge bonfire in camp
celebrated the last night at Chickamauga. Early the next morning camp
was broken, and the regiment marched to Rossville, Georgia, where
it entrained early in the morning and was enroute to the blue grass
region of Kentucky. Chickamauga was left with no regrets.




_Sickness at Chickamauga_


The prevailing sickness at Chickamauga was diarrha, dysentery and
typhoid. During the spring and summer about 80,000 men passed through
the park, but there were probably never over 50,000 encamped there at
any one time. The board which investigated the sanitary conditions
of 44,803 men at Camp Thomas, reported 9,960 probable cases of
typhoid, and 713 fatal results from this disease. One man in every
five suffered from this fever, and almost every man was afflicted
with some intestinal disorder. Much has been said as to whether this
suffering was preventable, and was due to ignorance and neglect, or
was paid as the necessary price of war.

In the first call for troops the War Department expressed a desire
that the States should give preference among volunteers to National
Guard organizations, in the expectation that they were equipped and
had been prepared for war by a previous training.

Massachusetts perhaps, satisfied this expectation as fully as any
state. Her regiments were at least uniformed, armed, and equipped
with means for preparing food, but they had no experience in caring
for themselves in the field. The Government ration consisted of
bread, coffee, potatoes, onions, canned tomatoes, fresh beef seven
days, and bacon three days out of ten. One hundred rations were
sufficient in quantity to feed one hundred men one day, but this
required careful management on the part of company commanders, and
proper preparation by company cooks. Any system of training men for
the field should make provision for accustoming men to live, and live
comfortably upon this ration.

It is not an answer to say that the United States Army in time
of peace, does not live upon this ration, but supplements it by
purchases from their company funds. A volunteer regiment going into
the United States service, will have no company funds, and must live
on the ration until companies accumulate funds, which ordinarily
would be impossible in the field. Any system of training which fails
to recognize this fact is false in theory and practice.

Previous to the Spanish War, the Massachusetts Militia were fed by
caterers at their summer outings. There was a Commissary Department,
but its officers were appointed for other reasons than efficiency
and experience in handling supplies. Some states had commissary
departments which furnished rations, and required the companies to
prepare the food, but there was no where any systematic attempt to
train men to manage and support life upon the Government ration.

Resulting from a lack of previous experience, the Massachusetts
regiments suffered during the first six months of their field
service. Men were starving in the regiments, because unable to
assimilate the Government ration, which, through a lack of experience
in handling and preparing, was served to them in a form which did
not properly nourish, and aggravated and perpetuated the ordinary
intestinal troubles which recruits usually experience when first
taking the field. Many men were improperly nourished, their vitality
lowered, and their power of resisting disease impaired. So far as
this resulted from a defect in their militia training, the State of
Massachusetts was responsible.

For a number of years the Massachusetts Militia had been equipped for
eye service. The men were supplied with the equipments they could
carry on their person, and which contributed to the success of a
parade, by giving it a ready-for-war appearance. Not much attention
was paid to other equipments.

There was a limited supply of blankets, ponchos, buzzacotts and
tentage, but not enough for all the troops. These were held at the
Framingham Arsenal, and did duty for a mysterious field equipment,
ready for instant use. There were no shelter tents or wagons. Some of
the supplies were of a stage property kind. The shovels carried by an
improvised pioneer corps in one of the Boston street parades, lasted
two hours when used for digging by a detachment of the Eighth. The
Militia of Massachusetts had never been properly equipped for field
service.

The appropriation of $500,000 by the Legislature in April, enabled
them to take the field better supplied than the Guard Regiments from
many states, but they were never fully equipped by the State, or
instructed in the A B C of a soldier's duty.

They had been assembled for years in brigade camps, and taught
ceremonies and parades, but no attempt had been made to teach company
commanders the important lesson of how to meet the requirements of
the field, and care for their men under service conditions. The
increasing sick list reported in all the camps, accentuated this
absence of individual experience and trained company officers.

The War Department was as unprepared as the Militia of Massachusetts.
The machinery for handling an army of 26,000 men in peace, was called
upon to mobilize 275,000 men of war. It was altogether inadequate
to meet the emergency. There were practically no reserve supplies.
On April 23rd the Government had enough Springfield rifles to equip
the volunteers, but that was all. The cloth of the uniforms first
issued to some regiments at Chickamauga, was not manufactured when
the regiments were mustered into service.

Large quantities of commissary supplies were purchased in the market,
and rushed to the large camps for concentration. These supplies were
uniformly of standard quality, and were accumulated in sufficient
quantities at the depots, but were often delayed in distribution to
the troops. Volunteer officers were at first unacquainted with the
use of requisition blanks, and the red tape of Government issue, and
the Commissary Department lacked facilities to make prompt and full
deliveries. This was the earliest department, however, to get into
working order, and subsequent complaints at Chickamauga were due to
the inexperience of officers and men in handling the rations.

The Quartermaster's Department also made large purchases in the
market, but were handicapped by having to wait for articles to be
manufactured to fill orders. This department at Chickamauga was
further handicapped by inefficiency and failure to appreciate the
situation, and the necessary requirements of the troops.

As soon as wagon transportation was issued to the Eighth, they began
to bring the water from the Blue Spring. This was a long haul, and
required many barrels for transportation and storage in camp. The
supply of barrels issued by the Quartermaster's Department to the
regiment was inadequate. The Chief Quartermaster was repeatedly
requested to furnish sufficient barrels for this purpose, and
refused. The regiment subsequently purchased, at its own expense, at
Chattanooga, sufficient receptacles.

The refusal of the Chief Quartermaster was reported to the Inspector
General's Department, and was thus commented upon:--

  "One of the principal appeals made to me during the many
  inspections that I made was for water barrels and boilers,
  so that the strict order to boil all drinking water might be
  complied with. I made several trips to the office of the chief
  quartermaster in behalf of the command on this matter, but
  without success. I finally went to the corps commander, and he
  told me to go again to the chief quartermaster, who told me that
  the regiments had as many as 15 water barrels to each regiment
  (twelve companies), and the water being hauled from four to seven
  miles. This reply convinced me at once of a total failure to
  appreciate the condition of affairs, what was required, and what
  should be done. Owing to a failure of this department to provide
  the proper shelter, supplies, and clothing, I am satisfied that
  much of the sickness was caused.

  The whole matter sums itself up in this, that the regulations
  necessary for the conduct of a small army during a period of
  thirty-five years of peace, when built upon and expanded into
  those required for an army ten times as large in time of war,
  failed absolutely and went to pieces."

The Regimental Commander repeatedly asked the Quartermaster's
Department for disinfectants and lumber; these requisitions were
disallowed. Whatever supplies of this nature the regiment had, were
purchased by private contribution, until the spread of disease
excited public indignation and demanded liberal issues. After
official investigation began, a change was noticed in the policy
of the department. By the end of the summer it is probable that
porcelain lined bath tubs would have been issued for the mere asking.

During the hot summer months, 75 per cent. of the men at Chickamauga
were forced to wear heavy woolen clothing. The Eighth was the only
regiment fully equipped with canvas suits. These had been purchased
by the State of Massachusetts. If sufficient energy had been
displayed by the Quartermaster's Department, the same clothing would
have been purchased and issued to all the regiments. What supplies
were on hand were held in small storehouses, and their issues blocked
by lack of system and necessary labor to handle the goods.

The Medical Department at Chickamauga was inefficient and displayed
lack of both professional and executive ability. There was an
unnecessary shortage of medical supplies and hospital attendants.
No provision was at first made for general hospitals. The sick
were cared for in regimental hospitals, and later when these were
abolished, in Division Hospitals. Division hospitals are organized
to accompany troops in the field, and serve as a collecting station,
where the injured receive temporary treatment and are transferred as
soon as practicable to general hospitals.

The field hospitals at Chickamauga were swarmed with the sick, and
were forced to become general hospitals, as no other provision
had been made. The accommodations were inadequate. Hospital tents
were insufficient in number, and were not supplied with proper
furnishings. There was a lack of medicine and nourishing food. The
nurses were enlisted men detailed from the various regiments, and
were ignorant of their duties, and without experience.

The quarters and grounds were dirty, and the service was
undisciplined, disorganized and demoralized. Until taken firmly in
hand by General Sanger and reorganized, the Third Division Hospital
was a monument to the ignorance and incapacity of the Medical
Department.

This Department was thus described in an inspection report:--

  "I found quite a number of sick in each regiment, and was
  informed by the regimental surgeons that they could not get from
  the medical depot those medicines and other supplies needed
  for the sick, and was also informed that, in reply to their
  request, they were told that no issue of medicine or medical
  supplies could be had from the depot until the field cases were
  filled; that, although the medicines were on hand, it was not
  the intention to make issues until everything could be done
  in the order required by the Army Regulations, resulting in
  unnecessary discomfort and suffering to the sick. The different
  aid societies did a great deal toward helping out the unfortunate
  conditions, but on the whole, the administration of the affairs
  of this department was a dismal failure. Those regimental medical
  officers bought a great deal of medicine with their own funds
  and from funds furnished them by their friends at home. There
  were no cots, blankets, pillows, nor sheets. The medicine and
  medical supplies were entirely inadequate for many days after my
  reporting for duty. There were no floors in the tents where the
  sick were. They were crowded together in dangerous proximity to
  each other, and those gentlemen of the medical profession of the
  volunteer service were very bitter in their denunciations of our
  miserable system."

The medical officers of the Eighth were at all times zealous and
efficient in instructing officers how to combat disease, and the
regimental officers were intelligent and active in carrying out these
instructions.

Before typhoid became epidemic, Colonel Pew assembled officers and
men after evening parade, and explained to them the nature and cause
of this fever. He said this disease had already broken out, and he
anticipated it would become a scourge to the troops, because of the
unsanitary condition of the various camps. That it was caused by
microscopic germs found in the discharges of the sick. That these
germs were very tenacious of life, and increased and multiplied
rapidly in filth. That when dry they would drift about in the air and
lodge on food, clothing or the person. That they were harmless unless
taken into the mouth, but as they were too small to be seen, there
was always danger of contagion. That they were killed by boiling,
and for that reason the men would be required to drink only boiled
water, and keep their food protected against dust. That all human
excreta must be deposited in the proper place, and covered with a
paddle, as Moses taught the children of Israel to care for themselves
in the Wilderness. That police regulations would be enforced, and
camp conditions made as unfavorable as possible for the growth and
development of these germs. He urged the men to appreciate the danger
to which they were exposed, and to avoid it by complying strictly
with all sanitary regulations.

The Medical Board appointed to examine into the causes of the
existence and spread of typhoid in the national camp of 1898,
reported that this fever was brought to Camp Thomas by the
volunteers, and spread by the neglect of the rules of sanitation and
military hygiene. Out of forty-eight regiments whose medical records
were examined, nine regiments reached Chickamauga with developed
cases of typhoid, twenty-five regiments developed cases within two
weeks, and at the expiration of one month only two regiments of the
forty-eight were free from this disease. The first case of typhoid
in the Eighth Regiment was reported July 13.

The average volunteer at Chickamauga had little discipline, and a
slight knowledge of sanitation. He was willing to fight, as he had
enlisted for that purpose, but he rather resented as an invasion of
personal rights, any attempt to dictate what he should eat or drink.
He did not accept in full faith the germ theory of disease, and was
skeptical about the existence of bugs he could not see.

If water looked clear and was cool, he was unwilling to believe it
was unwholesome, especially when it tasted sweet and satisfied his
cravings. He was willing to believe that any water in which fish
could swim, was good to drink, or to accept any other absurd test
which was current.

The experience of an outpost from the regiment illustrates the
chances intelligent college men would take, when it became a question
of satisfying the appetite. This outpost was established on the banks
of Chickamauga Creek, below the inflow of camp sewerage, and obtained
their drinking water from a spring bubbling up in the slope of the
bank. A sudden rain caused the creek to rise and submerge the spring.
After the water subsided, the outpost discovered the surface of the
spring covered with slime.

Someone suggested bad germs floated, and acting upon this theory,
they plunged a canteen to the bottom of the spring, with the opening
stopped by the thumb against the entrance of bacteria. When the
canteen was on the bottom, the thumb was removed until the canteen
was filled, the opening was then again plugged with the thumb, and
the supply brought to the surface. Every member of this outpost was
stricken with typhoid as a result of this experiment.

Although orders had been issued to drink only boiled water, most men
in the corps drank what they pleased. Unsatisfactory rations led many
men to patronize the various food venders. Near the railroad station
a swarm of booths sprung up, where all kinds of food were dispensed.
These stands were not subject to medical inspection, and later were
denounced by the Medical Department as sources of contagion.

The chief sources of contagion were company sinks. Digging and caring
for sinks did not appeal to the men as heroic soldiering. They hated
and shirked this duty and as a result the sinks of many regiments
were so repulsive that the men refused to use them, and polluted
territory surrounding the camp.

The care of the sinks was always a matter of great solicitude to the
officers of the Eighth. Their cleanliness was insisted upon at all
times with martinet rigidity, and men were punished for not using
them, after the formality of a trial and conviction before a summary
court.

It was recognized that these pest holes might become breeding grounds
of flies which would infest the camp and carry contagion. The
following extract from a circular shows to what extent this danger
was appreciated.

  "No doubt typhoid fever, camp diarrha, and probably yellow fever
  are frequently communicated to soldiers in camp through the
  agency of flies, which swarm about fecal matter and filth of all
  kinds deposited upon the ground or in shallow pits and directly
  convey infectious material, attached to their feet or contained
  in their excreta, to the food which is exposed while being
  prepared at the company kitchens or while being served in the
  mess tent. It is for this reason that a strict sanitary police
  is so important."

Although the Eighth prevented flies breeding in its own camp, it
could not prevent them swarming from other camps and spreading
contagion. Flies increased and multiplied. A roast of beef exposed
for a few minutes looked as black as a mass of charcoal, so dense was
its surface packed with flies. Netting was purchased, and an attempt
was made to keep all food covered. Some of the officers constructed
mess quarters of scantlings covered with fly screens.

For two months the Eighth Regiment, fully realizing the danger to
which it was exposed, fought against typhoid and combated it with
intelligence and energy. During the last two months of its stay at
Chickamauga, it was smitten with a heavy hand, and became the victims
of a system which failed to furnish sanitary safeguards against the
spread of communicable disease.

Digging was at all times difficult in the territory of the Eighth,
as the soil was a hard clay and the outcropping ledges caused the
abandonment of many sink holes when half dug. When the rainy season
began a new danger threatened the regiment. The sinks would fill with
water and stay full. Refilling the holes with lumps of clay that had
been taken out, would cause an overflow and pollute the surrounding
ground. Sinks had to be abandoned after every heavy rain, and new
holes dug.

The ground in the rear of the camp was filled with open pits in
which polluted water stagnated. It was noticed that this stagnant
water became the breeding ground for insects. The ingenuity of the
officers was taxed to invent a method of sealing these sinks. A happy
suggestion occurred to a group of officers who had been in the
habit of dining at an Italian Restaurant in Boston. They had seen
flasks of Chianti sealed with a few spoonfuls of olive oil, and the
analogy suggested oil to seal the sinks against insect life. A can of
kerosene was secured, and the experiment tried.

As the oil spread over the surface of the water, it was noticed that
it apparently interfered with the comfort of the wigglers, as they
came to the surface. Crude petroleum was suggested as being stickier
than refined oil, and a can was procured in Chattanooga and tried.
Experiments showed that this oil often imprisoned the mother insect
when laying eggs, and was a complete bar through which the wigglers,
when grown, could not penetrate and emerge from the pits. Crude
petroleum was purchased by the barrel and used in these open sinks.

From the Eighth Regiment the use of petroleum spread through the
First and Third Corps, and subsequently became recognized throughout
the country as a means of destroying mosquitoes and other insects
that breed in stagnant waters.

The efforts which were made by the Eighth Regiment to maintain
a sanitary camp, were recognized in the report of Colonel A. A.
Woodhull, Deputy Surgeon General, U. S. A., on conditions in Camp
George H. Thomas. Under the various sub-headings of his report, he
refers to the regiment as follows:--

Under the sub-heading "Water Supply" he says:--

  "There are general instructions to boil all water, whether
  filtered or not. In the only regiment where I could be sure the
  order was actually enforced (Eighth Massachusetts), no typhoid
  has yet been recognized, and although the camp is very low and
  wet and remittant fever has occurred within the last fortnight,
  the general sick rate is only 2.56 per cent."

Under sub-heading "Character of Troops" he says:--

  "The dirty camps are the sickly camps here as elsewhere. But
  discipline and intelligence have their reward also. Without
  specifying instances low in the scale, attention is invited to
  the Eighth Massachusetts, already cited, where the positive
  enforcement of orders by punitive measures when necessary has
  resulted in the actual use of only boiled water for drinking,
  with exemption from typhoid fever and a low sick rate as a
  probable consequence."

Again, under the heading "Third Division, First Corps" he says:--

  "The Eighth Massachusetts, whose discipline is good and which
  boils its water, has a sick rate of 2.56, although its camp site
  is bad."

Some of the volunteers were handicapped by the qualities of their
officers. The American soldier responds to sympathetic leadership,
but not to the sympathy that expresses itself in exaggeration of his
hardships, and in frequent reference to his woes. This kind of talk
destroys the back bone of resistance, and makes a company a mob of
weaklings.

      It is easy enough to be pleasant
      When life moves along like a song,
      But the man worth while is the man with a smile,
      When everything goes dead wrong.

General Chaffee has said:--

  "Soldier's do not like sympathy; sympathy is for women and
  children. Soldiers are men, but they do like fair commendation
  when deserving of it, and especially when their fortitude
  has been severely tested. Commend our soldiers for manfully
  undergoing privations and they will readily respond again; but
  prate of their privations, deficiencies, and heavy burdens, and
  they soon learn to dread the hour that shall disturb their ease;
  the spirit becomes one of submission rather than one cheerfully
  embracing the opportunity to exhibit their endurance and their
  stamina."

The strength of the Eighth lay in the manhood of her officers and
men, who were ready with a determined smile to face any game into
which they were called.

A commission appointed by the President to investigate the sanitary
conditions of the military camps of 1898 reported early in 1899. The
report contains an allusion to the Eighth Massachusetts. It says:--

  "The intelligent and watchful supervision on the part of the
  surgeons and regimental officers, and the observance of the
  well established rules of camp sanitation shown by the record
  of the Eighth Massachusetts Volunteers at Camp Thomas, is very
  commendable. This regiment was for many weeks very healthy, while
  much sickness was occurring in regiments near by, although the
  camp site, water and drill were practically the same."

This was a great compliment to the volunteer regimental commander and
his officers.

In some of the camps in the United States, no thoroughly well
established rules of sanitation were observed. Little restriction
was placed on drunkenness and immorality. Soldiers did not seem to
care how they lived, and their officers did not watch or teach them.
Frequently the food was poorly cared for, and badly cooked, and the
men were permitted to eat and drink anything and everything they
could find. Sickness naturally followed in regiments where laxity
prevailed.

The Eighth, according to evidence before the commission, followed
just the opposite plan. Discipline was strict and impartial, and the
health of the troops consequently of the best. They were a source
of much admiration to all who saw them, both at Camp Thomas and
the other places. No other regiment in the whole American army was
similarly favored in the Commissioner's report.




_Lexington_


The Kentucky home of the Eighth was about five miles from Lexington
on a knoll between the Bryan Pike and the Kentucky & Eastern
Railroad. Access to the city and its markets was over the Pike or
by rail from the station of Montrose, a few hundred yards away. A
pipe line connecting with the city supply, brought water to the foot
of every company street. Lumber was to be had upon requisition, and
abundant facilities were offered for being and keeping well. The
sun penetrating to every corner of the camp, dried the seeds of
disease, and the breezes from the hay and clover fields blew away and
dissipated the germs. The expanding green and golden fields rolling
into distant stretches, rested eyes accustomed to the damp and closed
woods of Georgia.

Men depressed by the atmosphere of Chickamauga, opened their eyes
upon a new world, and began to experience the joy of living. The
place, time of year, and the intelligent efforts of officers to
stamp out disease, backed by unlimited Government supplies, infused
new life into the tired and jaded regiments of the Third Division.
General Sanger was indefatigable in his efforts to restore health,
and was loyally supported by the line and medical officers.

It was not given to the Eighth, however, to overcome at once the
results of their long stay at Chickamauga, surrounded by infection.
For months they had fought contagion, and kept typhoid at bay, but
were finally powerless against the swarm of flies that overspread
their camp, depositing bacteria upon food and clothing. The regiment
left Chickamauga inoculated with poison, and during the first few
weeks at Lexington, enteric fever broke out and was more prevalent
than at any other period.

For a month the energies of the regiment were devoted to getting down
to the bed rock of health. Sources of contagion were destroyed or
removed. At sick call, men with abnormal temperatures were removed
from their comrades, and sent to the general hospital. Suspicious
cases were held under observation until the outcome was known. Sick
men who might be a source of new contagion, were at once separated
from the regiment, and so thoroughly was this work done, that more
than half the regiment was away from the colors.

A systematic crusade was made against the old germs that had traveled
with the regiment from Chickamauga hid in blankets, clothing or
personal belongings. Corrosive sublimate and chlorinated lime were
freely used.

Clothing and blankets were boiled, brushed, and hung up for sunshine
and wind to work through. All excreta was collected in closed sinks
from which flies were excluded, and germ life was poisoned with
chemical agents.

Tent floors were daily washed with corrosive sublimate, and weekly
stood on end for the under side to be dried and white washed.
Location of tents were frequently changed, and the uncovered ground
thoroughly treated with lime. The camp was thoroughly drained,
policed, and was as near medically clean as the science of military
hygiene permitted.

As soon as possible a new issue of tentage was obtained, and those
used at Chickamauga were destroyed. Each tent was furnished with a
floor, and wooden sleeping bunks.

Sales by pedlers were regulated by orders from Division Headquarters.
Chickamauga Park had been overrun by fakirs selling cakes, pies and
other foods, much of which was believed to have been contaminated,
and to have materially contributed to the spread of camp diseases.
As soon as the food pedlers appeared in the new camp, they were
rounded up by the guard and expelled. Certain permits were issued,
regulating the sale of foods. Pedlers were required to report to the
Officer of the Day, and conduct their business under his direction
and supervision.

Many men suffering from intestinal troubles, could not assimilate the
sturdy Government ration, and large quantities of milk and eggs were
daily needed for their nourishment. Such perishable articles were not
furnished by the Government, and company commanders had to depend
upon the company fund for their purchase.

The sale of beer was the chief source of revenue to the Canteen, and
was accordingly resorted to. A commodious wooden building was erected
as a Post Exchange, and a large ice box was constructed, where
gallons of milk and hundreds of eggs were stored. Captain Horace S.
Bean, of Company B, was put in charge of the Canteen, and made large
purchases from the neighboring farmers. The favorite tipple served
over the bar was a milk and egg shake. Many of the company commanders
served an egg nog to each man at 10 A. M. and 4 P. M. daily. The
best quality of beer was obtained from Milwaukee, and was hereafter
retained as a regular Canteen supply, while the regiment remained in
the service.

The profit on the sale of beer became a material factor in building
up the health of the regiment, and augmenting the company funds. At
one time over three thousand dollars was divided among companies as a
Canteen dividend.

A new hospital tent was received from the Massachusetts Volunteer
Aid Association, and was pitched on the left flank of the regiment.
As the regimental hospital had been abolished, this was used as
a dispensary. All soldiers requiring treatment reported to the
dispensary, where their case was diagnosed by the regimental surgeon,
and if it was found that the patient was in a condition requiring
treatment, he was immediately sent to the Division hospital.

This was known as the John Blair Gibbs Hospital, and was situated
about a mile from camp. It was presided over by a competent staff of
skilled surgeons, assisted by a corps of trained nurses, from whom
the men received excellent treatment.

During this period of recuperation, furloughs were freely given. This
privilege was sometimes abused, and some men without any ailment,
except a desire to go home, managed to pass the surgeons and secure
a furlough. The "furlough walk" and "furlough face" came to be
recognized as evidence of homesickness, and was more or less joked
about among the men as means of obtaining a furlough. Nearly all the
men, however, who were sent home, needed a change, and were granted
furloughs as a sanitary precaution.

Lexington had been the home of Henry Clay, and as a compliment to the
city, the camp was named Camp Henry Clay, in honor of the Kentucky
statesman. This name was subsequently changed, as the War Department
had adopted the practice of naming the camps in honor of soldiers who
had fallen in the Spanish War, to Camp J. M. Hamilton, in honor of an
officer in the Ninth United States Infantry, who fell at Santiago.

The "P jacket" first appeared in the regiment at Camp Hamilton.
Previous to its introduction, one unacquainted with military affairs,
could not distinguish prisoners from other soldiers.

These jackets were a distinctive badge. They were a blue jumper with
a large capital P painted in white upon the back, and a smaller
letter P, and the prisoner's number painted upon the arm.

It was related that a party of young ladies visiting the camp, became
very much interested in these uniforms; but not understanding the
letter P, inquired its significance from one of the prisoners, and
was smilingly told that it stood for "Perfect," and that the jacket
was a badge of honor.

The condition of the regiment was a source of great solicitude to
its friends at home, and many anxious inquiries were made as to its
health and surroundings. On September 8th, Mayor Ramsdell of Lynn,
visited the camp and remained a number of days. He was the first of
several Northern people who visited the camp to inquire into and
report upon the condition of the troops.

On September 8th, the camp was visited by a delegation from
Massachusetts, headed by Colonel Benjamin S. Lovell of Weymouth, of
the military committee of Governor Wolcott's council. This trip was
the result of a story printed in a Cincinnati paper, to the effect
that the Eighth was demoralized with typhoid fever.

Colonel Lovell and others, who were in attendance at the national
encampment of the G. A. R., in the Ohio city, saw the report in the
paper, and Colonel Lovell telegraphed for authority to proceed to
Lexington and make an investigation, and permission was granted by
Governor Wolcott.

A special car was chartered, and Colonel Lovell, Colonel William M.
Olin, secretary of the commonwealth, a veteran of the Civil War, who
camped at Lexington in those stirring days, Captain J. G. B. Adams,
sergeant-at-arms of the Massachusetts legislature, himself a past
commander-in-chief of the G. A. R., accompanied by Mrs. L. A. Turner,
prominent in Women's Relief Corps circles, and other Massachusetts
people, made the trip to Lexington.

The day was spent in looking over the regiment, and Colonel
Lovell, Colonel Olin and Captain Adams, made a thorough inspection
of the regiment and its conditions, in regard to food, sanitary
arrangements, and especially in regard to sickness. Colonel Lovell
made a report to the governor upon his return home, and the same is
on file at the State House, although it could not be located at the
time this chapter was written.

At the close of the day, the entire party went back to Cincinnati,
satisfied that the report was greatly exaggerated by the newspaper
which had published the story, as there was but little typhoid among
the men.

On September 12th, Mayor Chase of Haverhill, also visited the camp,
being the guest of Company F of that city.

The troops quartered in and about Lexington were the Eighth
Massachusetts, Twelfth New York, Twenty-First Kansas, One Hundred and
Sixtieth Indiana, Third Kentucky, Fourth Kentucky, Third Mississippi,
Second Missouri, Seventh United States Immunes, colored, Eighth
United States Immunes, colored. On September 26th, the Twenty-First
Kansas left for Fort Leavenworth, to be mustered out of the service,
and upon the day following their place was taken by the First
Territorial Regiment. This regiment was enlisted from the territories
of New Mexico, Arizona, Oklahoma, and Indian Territory, and was
composed of ranchmen, cowboys, and some Indians. Their initial
appearance in the camp of the Eighth was explosive. As soon as a camp
site had been assigned them, and they were dismissed, they started
on a round of visits to the various camps. The visit was made upon
the run, accompanied by a continuous yelling and whooping. This
whirlwind of noise passed through every company street in the New
York and Massachusetts regiments without stopping, and disappeared
to repeat the performance in the camps of other regiments. The most
orderly member of the command was a large brown bear, which did duty
as regimental mascot.

Some amusement was furnished one evening as the men assembled for
parade, by a barouche containing four ladies of the town, driven by a
stately colored man. They disappeared in the camp of the Twelfth New
York, but shortly returned with the large letters I. C., in chalk on
the back of the carriage.

The camp site of the Eighth had formerly been cultivated, but during
the summer the land had run to weeds. These were waist high until
mowed. During one of the early changes of guard, the old guard was
marched by the Lieutenant through some of these weeds, towards
the regimental parade, where they were to be dismissed. Suddenly
the guard broke ranks, and each man rushed for his quarters. The
Lieutenant stopped in amazement and shouted to his men, "What in
blank are you running for"? Before he got an answer, a swarm of
hornets attached themselves to his person, and he was soon running as
fast as any member of his guard.

The men were encouraged to engage in sports as a recreation. At one
time, foot ball was taken up in a mild way, but after the Kentucky
State College defeated Company H by a score of 59 to 0, interest in
this strenuous sport died out.

Lexington was well supplied with entertainment, and on several
occasions enlisted men attended the theatre and circus in a body.

Two evenings were known at the Opera House as Eighth Regiment nights,
when the drum corps took part in the performance, and a large
delegation from the regiment was represented in the audience.

The drum corps was well received throughout the south, and their
rendering of Dixie was always greeted with Southern yells of approval.

On one occasion Company L was entertained at the home of Mrs. Kate
Breen, where Lieutenant Breen, Inspector of Rifle Practice of the
Ninth Massachusetts Infantry, was visiting. He acted as host, and
left with the men a pleasant memory of his hospitality.

Dr. Horace B. Frost, of Boston, joined the regiment here, having been
commissioned Assistant Surgeon, with the rank of Lieutenant, vice
Jenkins, resigned.

The people of Lexington were most courteous and kind to the regiment.
Many homes were opened, and the genial social life was welcomed as
a help in making officers and men contented. On September 24th, the
regiment was the guest of the Jockey Club at the Loudon Park. It gave
an exhibition drill, and witnessed the races.

One of the features was a running race, open only to the officers
of the Third Division. It was participated in by 20 officers, the
leaders finishing in the following order:--

Major Nickerson, Seventh United States Cavalry; Lieutenant Hero,
Fourth United States Artillery; Lieutenant-Colonel Bailey; Colonel
Pew; Major Eldredge; Adjutant Barroll, and Quartermaster Wonson, all
of the Eighth Massachusetts; Lieutenant Horton, Twelfth New York, and
Lieutenant Stinson, Eighth Massachusetts.

This contest was continued two other days, the "finals" being run
off Saturday, open to the entire camp (12,000), any military horse,
with an officer "up." The final was won by Lieutenant-Colonel Bailey,
Eighth Massachusetts, on his mare "Alathea," with Adjutant Barroll,
Eighth Massachusetts, second, on Colonel Pew's "Essex."

Ladies were frequently the guests of the regiment, and especially
on review days. Two large reviews were held in which all the troops
participated, one in honor of General Russell A. Alger, Secretary
of War, and the other in honor of Governor Bradley of Kentucky. On
September 20th, General Russell A. Alger arrived by rail, and was
met at the station by the Second Brigade, and escorted to General
Breckenridge's headquarters. Later on, a review was tendered by
the Division. The Eighth paraded over eight hundred men, and from
this time its numbers were continually increasing by the return of
convalescents to duty, and the expiration of furloughs.

After the review, the Secretary of War inspected the Division
Hospital and the various camps. He spent some time in the camp of the
Eighth, chatting with the officers, and took occasion to compliment
the regiment upon its intelligent struggle against typhoid at
Chickamauga.

Early in August, the Secretary of War had sent Colonel Hopkins,
Assistant Inspector General of the United States Army, to examine
and report upon the condition of the troops at Chickamauga. Colonel
Hopkins' report to the Secretary of War was subsequently published,
but was unknown to the regiment at this time. In it he said that
the Eighth Massachusetts was the only regiment in the Park he was
sure had complied with sanitary regulations, and that its low sick
rate, as compared with that of other regiments, showed an intelligent
appreciation of the situation by the officers, and an earnest effort
to stop the spread of preventable disease, by the application of
hygienic measures.

Later in the day, the Generals and Colonels of the Division met the
Secretary at General Breckenridge's headquarters, and were invited
to express their opinion on the sanitary conditions. Some of the
officers bitterly denounced the inefficiency of the Quartermaster's
Department and the Medical Department at Chickamauga; the Chief
Surgeon of the corps was characterized as a horse doctor, and his
professional qualifications were criticised.

Several changes of officers were made in October. On the 20th,
General Breckenridge turned over the command of the Corps to General
James H. Wilson, under whom the Eighth served until mustered out.

On the 7th, Rev. George D. Sanders, the Chaplain, resigned. The Rev.
Milo H. Gates of Ipswich, was appointed to fill this vacancy November
11th, but before being mustered in, was thrown from a horse, and
owing to his injuries was unable to pass the physical examination.
Chaplain Sanders was subsequently re-appointed and joined the
regiment in Cuba.

On October 24th, Lieutenant Francis H. Downey of Company I, died
at the St. Joseph's Hospital in Lexington, of pneumonia. Funeral
services were held over his remains in the city, and were attended by
the officers of the regiment, and by Companies D and I. He was the
only officer in the command who died during the service.

On the 28th, Lieutenant-Colonel Edwin W. M. Bailey resigned, and
Major William Stopford was promoted to Lieutenant-Colonel. The
vacancy in majority was not filled, as the United States allowed at
this time but two majors to a regiment. Colonel Stopford continued to
command the First Battalion. Owing to the place of his promotion, he
became known in Lexington society as the real Kentucky Colonel.

Lieutenant Stephen N. Bond of Company K, resigned on October 28th.

During the temporary absence of the regimental surgeon, Captain
Rutherford of the Second Missouri, was assigned and remained on duty
with the regiment several weeks.

After the Third Division had recovered its health, the proposition
to make a practice march was again discussed. Lieutenant Francisco
A. DeSousa of Company E, with a detail from the regiment, was sent
over the road to Frankford, Kentucky, to locate camps and select a
suitable place for rifle practice. It was the intention to have each
regiment march to Frankford and spend a week at target practice.
Owing to the lateness of the season and the approach of cold weather,
the undertaking was abandoned.

On October 10th, General Waites, who was about to retire from the
command of the Second Brigade, tendered the officers a reception at
his quarters. Soon after the officers of the Eighth had returned to
their camp, Colonel Pew received directions through a staff officer
to issue ball ammunition, and hold his men in readiness to march. The
order was immediately obeyed. No explanation was offered, and the
regiment awaited developments.

In the quiet night the measured beat of marching was heard along the
Bryan Pike, and the Regimental Guard reported the One Hundred and
Sixtieth Indiana going into Lexington to quell a riot. A member of
the Third Kentucky on provost duty in the city, had shot and killed
a soldier of the Twelfth New York, who refused to halt when ordered.
The sentinel was arrested pending an inquiry.

A rumor spread through the camp that a number of the Twelfth New York
and the First Territorial Regiments had started for the city to lynch
this sentinel. There was more or less disturbance at the Montrose
station by a mob of excited soldiers, and several shots were fired.

The Eighth was ordered to deploy one battalion as skirmishers across
the Bryan Pike, and railroad track, and stop all soldiers. The other
two battalions were to remain under arms in camp as a reserve.
Colonel Stopford executed this deployment with the First Battalion.
Nothing happened, and he was withdrawn before morning. The situation
in the city was easily controlled by the provost guard with the help
of the One Hundred and Sixtieth Indiana.

In October Governor Wolcott directed General Robert A. Blood,
the Surgeon General of Massachusetts, to visit the camps of the
Eighth and Fifth Massachusetts regiments and report on the sanitary
condition, rations and hospital accommodations of these regiments. As
a result of this trip, General Blood made the following report to the
Governor:--

  "After three or four days at Camp Meade, visiting the Fifth
  Regiment, I proceeded to Camp Hamilton, Lexington, Kentucky,
  where I arrived in due time. I found the camp of the Eighth
  Regiment about four or five miles out from Lexington, and in
  the heart of the blue-grass country. This was a most delightful
  situation, and I think, one of the finest locations for a camp I
  have ever seen.

  I was cordially received by Colonel Pew, commander of the Eighth
  Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and every opportunity was
  given me by the Colonel to inspect this camp. This regiment was
  stationed at Camp Thomas for a long time. There had been a great
  deal of sickness, mostly typhoid fever, but at the time of my
  visit there were no new cases, and the cases in the hospitals
  were progressing favorably. At this time there were no regimental
  hospitals. Orders for re-establishing the regimental hospitals
  had just been received from headquarters, but no medicines or
  medical supplies had been issued. I looked the camp over very
  carefully, saw the men on duty and off duty, and visited other
  camps for comparisons. I saw no regiment at Camp Hamilton that
  seemed so thoroughly up to all that goes to make a good regiment
  as the Eighth. The men were soldierly in their bearing, the
  grounds were kept in perfect condition, tents were all in order
  and scrupulously clean. A great many of the men had fixed up
  temporary bunks or cots for their beds. Altogether this was
  perhaps the cleanest regiment, excepting the Fifth Massachusetts,
  that I saw in all my visiting soldiers in the field. It was
  certainly equal to any.

  I saw almost nothing in the sanitary arrangements of this
  regiment to criticise. The only thing, as with the Fifth
  Regiment, which I think could be improved, is the company
  cooking. Of course this will improve in time. I stayed with
  this regiment nearly a week. I visited and dined with General
  Breckenridge, commander of this post, and with other general
  officers commanding divisions and brigades. General Breckenridge
  was very kind to me, showing me every attention, and all the
  officers I met at Camp Hamilton treated me with the greatest
  consideration. I take this opportunity to thank them. This army
  corps was, I believe, under better discipline than any other
  corps I saw during the summer, with the exception, possibly, the
  regulars at Montauk.

  I desire to say here, that, in my judgment, Colonel Pew is a most
  excellent commander, and all the officers of the Eighth whom I
  met seemed to be well up in their profession and doing most
  excellent work. The regiment as I saw it was an honor to the
  State."

By the end of October the nights had become chilly, and although bed
sacks and extra blankets were issued to the men, it was difficult to
keep warm. Americus, Georgia, had been designated in orders as the
future home of the Eighth Massachusetts and Twelfth New York and a
detail from the Eighth was already upon the ground preparing a camp
site.

Orders were issued for the Eighth to entrain on November 10th for
Americus, and upon this date the regiment was transferred to the
Second Brigade, Second Division, First Army Corps. The regiment
had been ordered to entrain early in the morning near the Montrose
station, but owing to the delay in loading the baggage of Brigade
Headquarters, it was impossible for the Quartermaster of the Eighth
to begin loading his baggage before afternoon.

The regiment had risen early, and had its breakfast before 5
o'clock, and in compliance with orders, all baggage had been packed
and transported to the station. The day was cold and raw, and a
steady downpour of rain had converted the camp site into a mass of
mud. Tents had been struck and shipped to the station, and the men
were required to remain on the camp ground all day without food or
shelter, waiting for the passenger sections to pull in from Lexington.

Many of the men in their efforts to keep warm, drank too much
whiskey, and a large number in the regiment became sadly demoralized.
The guard house, a wooden structure, was set on fire, and some of the
prisoners had a narrow escape from cremation. The event was known as
the evacuation of Lexington. The troop trains did not arrive until
after dark, when the regiment embarked, and for the first time since
five in the morning, the men were served with food and hot coffee.
The departure from Lexington was sad and dispiriting and was made
under trying conditions.




_Americus_


When the regiments of the Second Division were moved from Lexington,
they were assigned to camps in southwestern Georgia, in the cities of
Macon, Columbus, Americus and Albany. The Eighth Massachusetts and
the Twelfth New York went to Americus, where three regimental camp
sites had been prepared, and orders were issued for the Eighth United
States Infantry to join the brigade. This order was countermanded,
and no other regiments went to Americus.

On the morning of November 12th, the four sections bearing the Eighth
Massachusetts and its impedimenta reached Americus. The two camp
sites were about a mile from the city, and separated by the highway.
The Eighth was assigned to a large sodded field, where substantial
wooden company sinks had been constructed, water pipes laid to each
company kitchen, and an electric street lighting system was being
installed.

For a week the men of the Eighth were as industrious as ants. Each
company erected a long shed at the foot of the company street, one
end of which was closed in for a kitchen, in which was assembled
every convenience for preparing food. The rest of the shed was used
as a mess house, and furnished with long deal tables and benches,
where the men could sit and enjoy their meals. Canvas awnings
were attached to the long sides of the mess hall, to be used as a
protection against rain and wind.

Deep pits were dug for kitchen sinks. These were covered with tree
trunks and the dirt replaced and carefully arranged in a mound. A
detachable hopper was placed in the top of each mound to drain
liquid wastes into the sinks; the solids were than collected in
closed iron cans, and were carted twice daily to a crematory. The
hoppers were enclosed in wooden boxes with covers, which were always
resplendent with a fresh coat of whitewash.

Long wash stands were constructed with an overflow trough into the
kitchen sinks. A pipe ran the length of these stands, with frequent
faucets and iron wash basins. Each company was supplied with a
bathing tent in which a shower bath was constructed, where the men
could bathe every day if they so desired, and were required to bathe
twice a week. Tent floors were provided, and lumber for bunks and
clothing racks. A system of drainage was installed, and each company
street ditched and crowned to the center.

Battalion water plants were constructed, where all the water supplied
to the regiment for drinking purposes was boiled, filtered and iced.

The means for caring for the sick were excellent. In addition to
a regimental hospital, used as a dispensary, but supplied with
quarters sufficient to care for a number of men, there was a brigade
hospital located in a dwelling house, and adjacent to this were
erected a number of hospital tents with double boarded floors, and
with sides also boarded, so that patients were as comfortable in
the mild climate of Georgia as if they had been in the best managed
institution of the kind in Boston. The Brigade Hospital was in charge
of Major William Cogswell.

A building was erected for a post exchange, which was successfully
operated by a council of officers consisting of Captains Alexander
G. Perkins of Company A, William C. Dow of Company F, and Edward J.
Horton of Company G. All necessaries that were needed by the men
were offered for sale here at reasonable rates, and its restaurant
became famous for egg sandwiches and oyster stews. All these
paraphernalia of comfort and health were daily inspected by company
commanders, battalion commanders, regimental commander, and the
brigade commander.

Just before Thanksgiving, Colonel Arnold A. Rand of Boston, visited
the camp and reported its condition to Governor Wolcott. He said:--

  "I think you would be glad to know that the regiment is in most
  excellent condition; the officers cheery, trim, and a credit
  to the State. I did not see the regiment on parade, but which
  was very much better, I saw quite thoroughly the quarters, and
  examined everything as to the sanitary condition, from the sinks
  to the corral. I also saw the men at mess, and the quality of the
  rations. The whole regiment seemed in excellent condition, and is
  such a credit to the state that it is a very great pleasure to
  make such a report to you."

The men were allowed much liberty between drills, and passes were
issued to visit the city during the day. Many side trips were made
to Andersonville to visit the site of the celebrated prison where
many Federal soldiers were confined during the Civil War. Order was
preserved in Americus by a provost guard, under command of Lieutenant
George H. Dow of Company A. This guard arrested all soldiers found in
the city without proper passes, and returned them to the guard houses
of their respective regiments for trial for absence without leave.

The camp at Americus was at first named in honor of Major Forse. The
name was subsequently changed to Camp Gilman, as another camp had
earlier received the name of Camp Forse.

During the first few days at Americus, the Eighth was greeted with
many showers. The weather, however, was so mild that the men did not
wear overcoats except as a protection against the rain. During the
entire stay of the Eighth, wildflowers and roses were in full bloom.

On one side of the camp an extensive cotton field waved acres of
bolls, breaking into white flowering balls, which at a distance
looked like a sea of white roses. It is said that the low prices of
cotton did not warrant picking this field, and it was left intact and
beautified the approach to camp.

At no great distance were fields of sugar cane fit for harvesting,
where the men were often welcomed and treated to a supply of chewing
cane for the company. A solitary peanut farm was discovered by some
of the soldiers in their peregrinations, and its product brought to
camp.

The Georgia pines attracted much attention. Many of these trees were
transplanted and grouped about the camp for landscape effect. Every
line officer had one at his front door.

All the officers constructed wooden porches in front of their tents.
The porch had two faces, in one of which was a door, and in the other
a glass window. The interior space between the two faces was utilized
for a Sibley stove, and the pipe was carried through the wooden roof
of the porch. All these porches were whitewashed. A line of officers'
tents looked like a row of diminutive cottages, and in the morning
when every funnel was smoking, suggested the busy preparation of
breakfast in many little homes.

The officers of the regiment, however, messed together in a
commodious building, which was divided into a dining hall and
kitchen. The dining hall was also used as a regimental school room,
and as a place for social meeting in the evening.

On one occasion a birthday dinner was given in this hall at which
a historic cake figured. A lady sent this cake with an appropriate
number of candles to one of the officers, and by way of a joke, wrote
a letter to the Secretary of War, pretending to be the officer's
sister, and asked to have the regiment held at Americus until her
brother got his cake. This letter was preserved by Secretary Alger as
a bonafide communication, and was later commented upon in his history
of the War with Spain as follows:--

  "Of all the requests however received, perhaps the most unique
  was that which came from a young lady in Boston. Her note paper,
  hand writing, and rhetoric vouched at least for the culture of
  the writer. Her request was simple and plainly worded. With much
  unfeigned earnestness she stated her case. The press despatches
  had announced that the volunteer regiment of which her brother
  was a member, was to leave for Cuba at a fixed date, but the
  brother's birthday came two days before the date assigned for his
  embarkation. A birthday box of cake, jellies, pies, etc., she
  said, had been forwarded to him, and would not be received if the
  regiment left on the date announced. She naively asked that the
  regiment be detained until the sweetmeats arrived, as she was
  sure it would make no difference to the Government, whereas, it
  would be such a disappointment to her brother."

During the first few weeks at Americus, the camp was overrun with
colored people. They came from far and near to see the soldiers.
Many of them carried covered baskets, and it was not long before a
well-founded suspicion grew, that many of these baskets came into
camp empty, and went out filled with plunder. The Eighth soon had a
little race problem of its own to solve. In each company a squad of
strong men assumed the duty of elevating the colored race.

The process of elevation consisted in capturing every colored man
with a covered basket, and tossing him on a blanket into the air,
until the arms of the soldiers got tired, and they could keep it up
no longer. The sight of a negro with a basket was the signal for
a rush in his direction with a blanket, and he was soon traveling
skyward, in spite of every objection on his part to such treatment.
For a few days, every such colored visitor was received in the open
arms of a regulation blanket.

As objectionable visitors became scarce, and covered baskets
disappeared, this moral propaganda ceased, and as far as the Eighth
was concerned, the race problem was solved.

Major Edward H. Eldredge was detailed by General Waites to select a
rifle range for the entire brigade. He selected one about half a mile
from the camp, where targets were installed under his direction at
200 and 500 yards. It was reported that the regiment was to be armed
with the Krag-Jorgensen rifles before the command was sent to Cuba,
and it was the intention to have the soldiers spend a portion of each
day at the range.

On November 20th, General Sanger arrived to relieve General Waites
of the command of the Second Brigade. Under General Sanger, active
preparations were at once begun for Cuba. Medical inspections were
instituted to weed out officers and men unfit for foreign service.
The regiment received a consignment of Krag-Jorgensen rifles, and
its supplies generally were overhauled and replenished. General
Sanger made a thorough inspection of the regiment by battalions.
This inspection lasted three days. Permission was obtained from
the Adjutant-General of the Army to recruit the regiment to full
strength, by transferring men from regiments in Massachusetts not yet
mustered out. A number of men who served in Porto Rico with the Sixth
Massachusetts, and were at home waiting muster out, were transferred
to the Eighth under this permission, and joined the regiment in
December and January.

On December 9th, General Wilson, the Corps Commander, and General
Ludlow, the Division Commander, visited Americus to inspect the
brigade. Owing to a severe storm, the review of the troops was
omitted; but the camp was thoroughly inspected by the Generals.

At the hospital of the Eighth, General Wilson said to the officer
in charge:--"Surgeon, this is a model hospital, because it has no
patients." The health of the regiment had steadily improved since
the end of the first month at Lexington, and on the morning of this
inspection there were just 1000 men present for duty with the colors.
On December 27th, for the first time in seven months, there was not
a single soldier of the Eighth in either the Regimental, Brigade, or
Division Hospital.

On December 12th the mess-house of Company L burned. A kettle of fat
boiled into the fire, and the flames quickly caught the roof of the
kitchen and spread, exploding a can of kerosene. The building was
soon wrapped in a sheet of flames. The regiment turned out and saved
the adjoining buildings, but the mess house, with all the company
supplies, was a total loss. The men of L were assigned to other
companies for rations, until a new dining hall and kitchen were
constructed.

About this time, Company L met with another loss, in the death of
its mascot. The company had appropriated a young razor-back at
Chickamauga, which, becoming attached to the company, followed it
from camp to camp. He lived in the company street and was as familiar
with the men as a well-trained dog. By Thanksgiving, the pig had
grown to such proportions that he was ordered by higher authority,
turned over to a butcher and served to the company as rations.

Company F had a lady goat as a mascot. She went through the service
with the company, and was finally mustered out in Haverhill, where
her descendents are numerous. The goat would follow the drum corps
anywhere as long as it was marching away from camp, but immediately
the direction was taken towards camp, the goat became obdurate and
had to be pulled home.

Just before Thanksgiving, the Colonel received the following telegram
from Captain Augustus P. Gardner:--

  "Should be glad to pay cost of best Thanksgiving dinner for your
  regiment. If you approve, wire answer."

The proper answer was promptly wired, and the regimental commissary
was sent into market to purchase turkeys and all that goes to make
up a best Thanksgiving dinner. A similar dinner was furnished to the
regiment at Christmas time by Hon. George von L. Meyer. These feasts
were much appreciated by the men and were enjoyed amidst much merry
making.

About this time several changes occurred among the commissioned
officers, Captain Frank B. Denning and Lieutenant Linville H.
Wardwell of Company C leaving the service by resignation. Second
Lieutenants F. A. DeSousa of Company E and David F. Jewell of Company
F were promoted to first lieutenants. The former was assigned to
Company I and the latter to Company K.

At the same time First Sergeant Loran J. Harvey of Company I, and
Sergeant Alexander Robertson of Company E were commissioned as second
lieutenants, after a competitive examination. The former was attached
to Company E and the latter to Company F.

On December 22nd the weather bureau, predicting a great storm, sent
a telegram of warning to all the military camps. The telegram to the
Eighth stated that the thermometer would drop 30 degrees. Not knowing
just what to do with this information, the Colonel directed it to be
published at evening parade. At evening parade, the orders of the
day were read by the Adjutant, and on this occasion the telegram was
read as the last part of the daily order; then followed the usual
phraseology,--"By order of Colonel Pew." The reading of this telegram
at the end of an order, caused considerable amusement in camp, at the
idea that Colonel Pew would order the thermometer to drop 30 degrees.

A flag pole was furnished the regiment and erected near the center of
the camp. On December 28th a garrison flag was received and broken
out from this pole with appropriate ceremonies. Thereafter, at
reveille and retreat it was hoisted and lowered. The flag and pole
were carried to and used in Cuba. On being mustered out, the flag
was presented to the regiment, and is now preserved at regimental
headquarters.

During this stay at Americus, Major Frank A. Graves and Captain
Charles T. Hilliker of Company D were absent from the regiment most
of the time on court martial duty at Columbus.

A common diversion in southern Georgia is cock fighting. Many mains
were attended by members of the regiment. A number of officers were
presented with railroad passes, and invited to go to Savannah to see
a review of part of the Seventh Corps, previous to its embarkation
for Havana. Permission was obtained for about 20 officers to make
this trip. The train left Americus at midnight, but through some
misunderstanding, the officers assembled at the hotel about 7
o'clock, and had an evening upon their hands.

One of the officers, thinking cock fighting was not tabooed by
law, and having been told by a prominent citizen that a main could
be arranged on short notice at any time, called up the citizen by
telephone in the hotel lobby, and invited him to bring the cocks to
the hotel and begin at once. He was promptly suppressed by the hotel
proprietor, and the law explained to him. A quiet, gentlemanly main
was tolerated, but not a public and bold defiance of the law.

A quiet, gentlemanly main was accordingly arranged for in a large
upper room, occupied by the grand jury as sleeping apartments, while
they were supposed to be engaged in an all-night session at the Court
House. Various mysterious bundles were smuggled into these quarters
by darkies, the windows were darkened, cocks were heeled, and
fighting was soon in progress. After several fights had been pulled
off, word came that the grand jury was about to leave the Court
House, and retire for the night. There was a wild scramble to put the
place in order, and a hurried exit of cocks and darkies. The officers
brought up the rear of this retreat, and wished the grand jury a
pleasant night's rest as they passed them in the hotel corridors.

About the middle of December, General Ludlow, who commanded the
Division, was ordered to Havana as a military governor. His place was
taken by General Sanger, and the command at Americus devolved upon
Colonel Pew.

Conical tents were issued in sufficient quantity to equip half the
command. This was the regiment's first experience with khaki canvas.
Company commanders were loath to substitute them for the wall tents
which they had been using. Accordingly each company was required to
erect these tents on one side of the company street. After the first
night, almost every company commander informed headquarters that
he had no objections to having his whole command in conical tents.
It did not take the men long to discover the advantages of khaki
canvas, and that they could burn a light behind it after taps, with
no fear of detection. Conical tents at once became popular in all the
companies.

On December 23rd, the Twelfth New York received orders to proceed
to Charleston and embark with General Sanger for Matanzas. Major
Eldredge was detached from the regiment to accompany General Sanger
as a member of his staff. The command of the Third Battalion was
assumed by Captain William C. Dow, of Company F. The New York
regiment left Americus the day after Christmas. Fifty-four men and
one officer remained behind as unfit for foreign service, and were
temporarily attached to the Eighth until they could be mustered out.

On December 30th, the Eighth received orders to prepare for Cuba.
They reported 40 officers, 1112 men, 29 wagons, 119 mules, 26
horses, and 26 civilian employees, with all necessary supplies ready
to move at once.

At this time, when the regiment was anxious to move, and
congratulating itself on the absence of all sickness, measles broke
out. The matter was kept quiet, and every company was inspected by
the surgeons twice daily, to detect and isolate suspected cases.
The surgeons thought the spread of the disease could be stopped if
everything in camp was boiled.

The last day of the year was as mild and pleasant as a summer day
in the North. Early in the morning, active preparations began for
boiling. Everything that could hold and boil water, was called into
service. Caldrons, pots, pans, and kettles, were soon steaming all
over the camp. Visitors were excluded for the day, and by noon time
the whole regiment had committed its belongings to boiling water.

A naked drum corps furnished music for a couple of hours, and the
men danced about like a mob of naked savages. At a distance, passing
natives gathered on the highway and wondered what it was all about.
The colored people were willing to believe that the evil one was at
the bottom of it all. After the regiment had boiled itself free from
germs, the guard was relieved, and went through the same process.

Everything in the regiment which could stand boiling, was boiled, and
everything which could not stand a soaking was otherwise disinfected.
Measles were thoroughly stamped out, and at the end of a week when
the regiment left for Cuba, but five men remained behind for this
reason.

On January 4th a large delegation of citizens visited camp to say
good-bye. After evening parade Colonel Lane, in behalf of the City
of Americus, addressed the regiment. He spoke in laudatory terms
concerning the conduct of the soldiers, and how the presence of
Massachusetts troops in Georgia had created new bonds of sympathy
between North and South.

Colonel Lane had requisitioned a wagon as a convenient platform from
which to address the soldiers. Many citizens had come in carriages,
and these carriages were wedged in about the orator, facing the
regiment. At the conclusion of Colonel Lane's remarks, Drum Major
Thomas, catching the enthusiasm of the moment, caused the drum corps
to break into "Dixie" under the very noses of several hundred horses.
Horses turned short in their shafts, and stampeded to the rear, the
orator's platform slid from under him, and it was some time before
the ceremonies of leave taking could be resumed with proper decorum.

The next evening the regiment returned the courtesy of this call
by marching into town and holding an evening parade in the public
square. On the return to camp, it found that Harry E. Stiles, its
bandmaster in the Militia service, had reported for duty, to organize
a band and accompany the regiment to Cuba.

More changes among the commissioned officers occurred during this
month. Lieutenant Eugene Larrivee of Company L resigned. Chaplain
George D. Sanders, who had resigned, was re-commissioned and rejoined
the regiment. Lieutenant John M. Pettengill of Company B was promoted
to captain and assigned to Company C. Second Lieutenants Frank
Stinson of Company B and Frederic P. Smith of Company C were each
made first lieutenants in their companies.

First Sergeant Edgar J. Whelpley of Company H, First Sergeant James
W. Jackman of Company K, Sergeant Charles R. Warner of Company I
and Sergeant William H. Clendennin of Company M were commissioned
second lieutenants. Lieutenant Whelpley went to Company C, Lieutenant
Jackman to Company B, Lieutenant Warner to Company G and Lieutenant
Clendennin to Company L.

On January 6th the First Battalion under command of Lieutenant
Colonel Stopford, entrained for Savannah, where it embarked on board
the transport Obdam. It broke camp during a rain storm on the coldest
day the regiment had experienced in Georgia.

As soon as the Twelfth New York left, Colonel Pew began to collect a
supply of lumber for use in Cuba. The buildings which this regiment
had occupied were pulled down, and every board washed with a solution
of corrosive sublimate. Two cars were obtained and loaded to
accompany the regiment.

On the evening of January 8th the Second and Third Battalions and
Headquarters entrained for Savannah. The most of January 9th was
spent in being shifted about in the freight yards at Savannah. A
casual visitor to one of the sections told the officers that the
ground in the yard where they were was so saturated with pine pitch,
that a lighted match dropped would start a conflagration. One of
the officers, thinking to call this bluff, made an experiment. The
visitor had told the truth, and the regiment had a conflagration
on its hands. The flames licked up the ground as if it had been
saturated with kerosene. The soldiers were powerless to stop the
fire with the means at their disposal. The railroad fire department
appeared with chemical tanks, and soon had it under control, before
any damage had been done, except blistering a few cars.

In Savannah the Colonel received a letter from Major Eldredge,
telling him the character of the camp site the regiment was to occupy
at Matanzas. The Major suggested the men would have to use iron tent
pins and do some blasting to make their Cuban home comfortable. The
Depot Quartermaster at Savannah was called upon and furnished a
supply of drills, sledge hammers, powder and iron rods. The soldiers
spent most of the night in the cars, while details were loading
supplies onto the transport. At 3 o'clock on the morning of January
10th, the men began to embark, and at daylight the transport Michigan
had cast off, and was slowly steaming down the river. At last the
regiment was off for Cuba.

[Illustration: EIGHTH REGIMENT CAMP AT MATANZAS, CUBA]




_Matanzas_


On January 10th the Obdam bearing the First Battalion of the Eighth,
came to anchor at Matanzas, in a wide, shallow bay, where ships lie a
mile or more off shore to discharge. Hills topped with palms, rose on
either side of the city, which spread out on a strip of land between
two little rivers, and straggled up the slopes, until the stone
houses of the town proper gave place to palm thatched huts on the
outskirts. The city upon a close inspection, was dirty and battered,
but from the sea its pink and blue walls presented a picturesque
appearance.

General Wilson, the Military Governor, and his staff, immediately
landed, and were received by the Twelfth New York. The men of the
Eighth witnessed this function from a distance. They were kept on the
transport during the day, while their baggage was landed.

The military camps were located on the western shore of the bay,
where the northeast trades blow continually across the bay from the
open ocean, always insuring pure air. It was a scant mile from the
city, and pipes from the municipal water service were laid, insuring
a bountiful supply of water.

The camp of the Eighth lay behind the old Spanish Fort San Severino,
and between the camp of the engineer battalion, and the Twelfth
New York. A broad boulevard in a bad state of repair extended from
the old fort to the town. All the troops were encamped along this
boulevard, on ground that for rockiness and general hardness of
appearance, outclassed any perpendicular farm in New England.

The rocks were of coral and volcanic origin, thrown up ages ago, and
appeared above the surface in many fantastic shapes. Every square
yard had its share of rock jutting above the red soil in sharp
pinnacles. The ground had been covered with brush and cactus, but
the engineers had been at work during the week prior to the arrival
of the Obdam, clearing this away, so that when the First Battalion
landed, it found the ground cleared of all vegetation.

The landing was made at a small wharf near the fort, and a few steps
across the dilapidated boulevard, brought the men to their future
home. The regiment had an excellent site, the bay lay before it, and
the ground rose in terraces from the water until it terminated in a
range of hills a mile back of the camp.

Major Eldredge who had preceded the regiment as a member of General
Sanger's staff, received the public property turned over to the
United States by Spain, in accordance with the evacuation agreement,
in Matanzas, and later in the City of Cardenas and other towns in
the province. When the regiment arrived, he was busily engaged at
Matanzas in establishing charities, and in reorganizing the police
department. The country about the city, as in other parts of Cuba,
was a waste, and the people were in a destitute condition. It was the
first duty of the United States to care for the people, and supply
them with food.

While the First Battalion was locating itself at Matanzas, the Second
and Third Battalions were enjoying a delightful voyage. During
the whole trip the sea was calm, and the Michigan glided along as
smoothly as any pleasure yacht upon a summer cruise. Very few men
complained of sea sickness, and soon got over any unpleasant feeling,
and enjoyed the trip.

It was warm and stuffy where they were quartered in the hold, but
their discomfort vanished with daylight, when they climbed on deck to
loll in the shade and enjoy the steady northeast trade. The Michigan
was formerly a freight vessel of the Warren Line, used as a cattle
boat to carry live stock to England.

The enlisted men were assigned quarters between decks. There were
no berths, but each man was furnished with a duck hammock, which
at night was hung on hooks in wooden uprights. These hammocks were
hung in tiers, one over the other. In the morning the hammocks were
rolled and stored, and the quarters prepared for inspection, which
took place twice daily, at 10 A. M., and just before retreat. These
inspections were made by the Colonel, accompanied by the transport
quartermaster, the police officer, medical officer, and master of the
ship. After the morning inspection, daily exercise was required on
deck.

Sometime during the day every man had a bath. They stripped on the
forward deck, and were pumped upon with a stream of water from the
ocean.

The officers quarters were as cramped as those of the men. There
were only ten state rooms. The ships guard consisted of one company
detailed for each day, the captain acting as officer of the day, and
the lieutenants as officers of the guard. Each company commander
provided his command with proper police utensils from the ships
quartermaster, and looked after the policing of the company quarters.
Cooking was done in the ship's galleys. During the trip, Stiles
commenced work with the musicians on board, for the new regimental
band. This nucleus had band practice every day.

During the second day the transport steamed along the Florida coast
within sight of a continuous stretch of beach sand and palm groves.
At Jupiter Inlet a salute was exchanged with some guns mounted near
the summer hotels, and the ship went so near the shore that the
winter visitors could be counted on the hotel piazzas.

Late in the afternoon of the 12th, the first glimpse was caught of
Cuba. During the night the transport lay off shore waiting for a
pilot. On the morning of the 13th, a pilot came on board and the
vessel steamed into the Bay of Matanzas, and came to anchor about two
miles from the city. A guard detail was immediately placed upon the
small wharf near San Severino to guard the baggage as it was landed.
Details were made to clear up the ship and assist in discharging
baggage and live stock.

As soon as the sentries were posted on the wharf, the soldiers began
to be lightered to the shore. A corral was established near the
wharf, where the horses and mules were soon assembled. Before night
the men on the Michigan were landed, and had joined their comrades
of the First Battalion in a pup camp, between the Boulevard and the
water, under the walls of San Severino.

For a week the soldiers of the Eighth were busy preparing their new
camp. Large hospital tents were issued to the command. Each company
was divided into squads of six men under a corporal, and assigned to
a tent. These tents were large enough to accommodate ten men, and in
them seven men had all the room they required. A large fly was issued
with each tent. As it was impossible to drive tent pins, large joists
were used in the framing of the tent floors, and portions of these
joists were extended on either side, to which the guy ropes were
attached. The tent floors were laid about a foot above the surface of
the ground on posts. To every man there was issued a Gold Medal cot.

Each company, with the lumber brought from Americus, erected a frame
mess house with substantial flooring, and constructed mess tables
and seats. The roofs of these mess houses were covered with canvas,
and in the rear of each a kitchen was built. The quarters of the
battalion commanders were upon a terrace slightly raised above the
level of the line officers street. Behind this terrace was another,
the center of which was occupied by Regimental headquarters. On one
side of this terrace, a Regimental hospital was established, and on
the other end, a stable with a canvas roof for the horses and mules.

The greatest difficulty was experienced in constructing roads through
this camp. The rocks cropped out in points, which had to be broken
with sledge hammers, or blasted with powder. Major Graves performed
the important duties of superintendent of streets, and soon had a
beautiful macadamized road running the whole length of the camp in
front of the line officers quarters.

From the center of this road, a well constructed way led to the field
officers terrace, and to the corral on the headquarters terrace.
Each company street was also macadamized. The rough pointed stones
which had been broken off were laid as a foundation and gravel and
sand were brought in as a covering. These roads were crowned in the
center, and were a most creditable production, and the source of much
favorable comment and praise. Major Graves was often congratulated
upon the work of his new department.

The gray walls of San Severino early attracted the attention of the
soldiers. It was an old Spanish fort erected to defend the approach
to Matanzas, and had just been evacuated by Spanish troops.

The Cuban visitors to camp who could make themselves understood,
spread harrowing tales of death recently inflicted upon insurgents
within its gloomy masonry. The old fort had been standing for
centuries, and looked to the imagination like a suitable home for
any kind of horror or torture. The tales told were to the effect
that insurgents were often lined up in squads against the walls and
shot to death, or decapitated and their bodies thrown into the bay.
A special wall in the counterscarp was pointed out as the execution
place.

The American soldiers, ever on the outlook for souvenirs, succeeded
in probing many battered bullets from the coral masonry of this wall,
which were sent home as evidence of these tales. The fort was soon
occupied and used as a military prison.

Lieutenant James H. Craig of Company L was detailed as its first
commander, and under him the casements were made habitable for its
guards, and for the prisoners awaiting general court martial or
serving sentences. An old piece of Spanish ordnance was mounted on
the parapet and did duty for a sunrise and sunset gun.

This picturesque pile was always in the foreground of any outlook
from the camp of the Eighth, and under its shade the men loafed, or
took they daily dip in the waters of the bay. All shipping passed
the fort or lay at anchor under its guns. In the morning or at night
the water in front of it was alive with birds and pelicans, diving
for food, with great fish bags hanging from their lower jaws, and in
the lazy afternoons, these same birds were seen perched on pieces of
flotsam taking siestas.

A few miles across the bay the walls of a settlement said to be
occupied by Cuban insurgents, broke with a broad band of glittering
white between the bright blue of the water, and the green expanse of
grass and palms, which on rolling hills, rose to meet the blue sky
on a distant horizon. The steady trade wind, beginning about eight
in the morning, and dying away just before sunset, rendered life in
the shade of the fort pleasant and comfortable, however high the
thermometer mounted in the sun.

As soon as the camp was put in condition, military work outside of
guard and provost duty was usually performed in the early morning or
late afternoon. During the middle of the day officers and men had
leisure to enjoy the pleasure of just living and being in the tropics.

Much of the hard work in unloading transports and getting the camp
sites ready for occupation was done by Cubans in the employ of
the government. Some two hundred of these worked about the camps
in squads, under the charge of non-commissioned officers from the
engineer battalion. A large number were employed in cleaning up
the city, and putting it in a sanitary condition. Much work was
undertaken by the government to furnish employment to the poor.

Lieutenant Colonel William Stopford was appointed general police
officer for all the camps, and had quite a force of civilian
employees under him. In his sanitary work he was charged with
the duty of destroying the many reconcentrado huts that had been
constructed on the outskirts of the town. The sides of these huts
were made of dried palm bark, and the roofs were thatched with palm
leaves. They had been built by the poor country people compelled to
come within the lines of concentration by the Spanish soldiery. Their
owners were usually glad to take the fifteen dollars offered by the
government and move out. The purchase and moving out process was
completed in a few minutes, and the evacuated homes set on fire.

There was a great deal of destitution throughout the cities and
towns of Matanzas Province. Most of the towns had been occupied
as fortified camps by the Spanish troops, and the people of the
surrounding country had been brought within the limits of the camps
to prevent their helping the insurgents.

The food supply was inadequate to support the population herded
together in this way, and there were many deaths from starvation,
and great mortality, especially among the children. Committees
were formed throughout the Province for the purpose of getting
food to these people. Captain Horace S. Bean of Company B was sent
into the interior to organize these committees and superintend the
distribution.

Chaplain George D. Sanders was detailed on special duty as chairman
of the commission on charities and corrections for the District,
where he served with much credit until mustered out.

Many poor people came to the camp to collect scraps of food that were
thrown away. They were mostly children and were not burdened with
much covering. They were special objects of pity to the soldiers, who
supplied them with food and clothing. After the depots were opened
in the city for the distribution of food, people were forbidden, for
sanitary reasons, assembling about the mess houses.

The men were annoyed by other visitors for whom they had no
compassion. There was a large variety of bugs and insects that made
their homes among the coral rocks. Centipedes and tarantulas were
especially unwelcome, as they formed the unpleasant habit of spending
the night in flannel shirt sleeves and trouser legs, and resented
being disturbed in the morning when the owner put on his clothing.
Fortunately, their bites, although very painful, were not deadly. It
was soon discovered that they disliked tent floors which had been
washed with a solution of corrosive sublimate, and after a while
these pests either died, or migrated to other quarters, where they
were treated to less frequent doses of corrosive sublimate.

Everything in the City of Matanzas, including streets, people,
buildings and language, were at first matters of great curiosity to
the soldiers. The city was supposed to have a population of some
40,000, and was the chief sea port and capital of the province
bearing the same name. The streets were narrow and ill kept. The
sidewalks were not over two and a half feet wide, and most of the
roadways were so rough that it would be impossible to drive a light
American wagon over them without great discomfort.

The houses were mostly alike, built of stone or stucco, and many were
colored a light blue or pink. They were built about a square court
yard, and usually not over two stories in height. The front of the
houses were flush with the sidewalks, and the windows barred on the
outside. No glass was used, but behind the iron bars, were shutters,
which, when opened, permitted anyone in the street to look upon the
family life within the front room. The front door was usually large
enough to allow a carriage to enter the house, and opened into a
passageway leading to a court. The kitchen was in the corner of this
court, or in a covered way leading into a back court. This back court
was sometimes used as a stable, and the exit from the stable was
through the court and front door of the house. Charcoal brasiers were
used exclusively for cooking, and a stove was unknown. The sleeping
rooms were usually upon the second floor, and opened upon a balcony,
which ran around three sides of the court. In the better class of
houses there was usually a fountain in the court, surrounded by
flowers and shrubbery.

Owing to the absence of decent roads, everything brought from the
country had to be carried upon pack horses. The milk dealers carried
their cans in the pouches of a huge saddle placed upon a very small
horse. Fodder was carried through the streets on similar saddles,
and a horse bearing a load of grass, looked as if he was going to
a masquerade disguised as a hay cock. Venders peddled bunches of
poultry tied together by the legs, and fishermen went about carrying
blue lobsters hanging by their tails from sticks, and advertised
their wares in shrill invitations to buy "langostas frescas."

Life in the streets and in the stores, the manner of preparing
and marketing foods, the different business methods, and the
Spanish language as a setting to all this strangeness, was new and
interesting. The men enjoyed the custom of storekeepers charging
different prices to officers and enlisted men over the same counter
for the same article, and the bland way a haberdasher would meet an
officer's protest, by telling him that everything ought to cost him
more, as his pay was larger. On Sunday, the only places of business
closed were the U. S. Quartermaster and Commissary Depots.

Sunday afternoons and evenings were holidays for everyone except
the storekeepers, and during Lent the streets were filled with
masqueraders. This manner of life was new to the men from New
England. Passes to visit the city were freely issued, when not
interfering with military duty, and men with good records were
allowed to visit Havana for a few days.

The City Hall in Matanzas, known as the Municipal Palace, was
situated on the Plaza in the middle of the city. The Plaza was
planted with palms and other tropical trees, and was the center of
business and social life. In the evening, one of the military bands
furnished music, and the citizens promenaded or gathered about
the tables in the restaurants, whose many open doors made them a
continuation of the sidewalk. The buildings facing the square were
stately and picturesque, and in the evening when the Plaza was
thronged with merry groups, and the electric lamps sparkled among
trees and fountains, life seemed very gay and foreign.

The provost guard was always on duty, and patrolled the streets
to maintain order. During the last of the stay at Matanzas, Major
Eldredge acted as Provost Marshal, and Companies M, E, K, and H were
detached from the regiment as a permanent part of his guard, and were
quartered in the old Spanish barracks.

On January 20th, the Cubans began a celebration in honor of
independence. No restrictions were placed upon these festivities, but
troops were held in readiness to suppress disorder. Many cruelties
had been inflicted upon the people of Matanzas by representatives of
the Spanish Government, and intense hatred was manifested against
the power that repressed them so long. As many Spaniards remained in
the city, it was feared, in the enthusiasm of the celebration, some
outburst of violence might occur against them. General Betancourt,
who commanded the Cuban insurgents, assured General Wilson that his
people were too happy to commit any breach of the peace.

Orders were issued to the troops in camp that a single gun fired from
San Severino, was the signal to assemble, and that any disturbance
was to be at once suppressed. At the end of the boulevard, near
its entrance to the city, a marble statute of Alphonse XII, King of
Spain, was walled up in a brick casing to hide it, and preserve it as
a work of art against vandalism.

The celebration was held in a most peaceable and orderly manner, and
was a joyful expression of gratitude for deliverance from oppression.
Extensive preparations were made by the people; public and private
buildings were decorated, and numerous arches spanned the streets,
bearing appropriate inscriptions in both Spanish and English. One
arch bore the inscription, "Hurrah for us." The word "us" painted
in small letters, referred to the United States, and was evidently
the way the author remembered the marks on Government property. The
American and Cuban flags were waved together throughout the city.

The exercises commenced with a street parade of Cuban troops, the
fire department, school children and citizens. The Eighth Drum Corps
did duty at the head of the insurgent soldiers. In the afternoon,
vespers were held in the Cathedral, and at night there was a display
of fireworks and general public rejoicing throughout the city.

An interesting feature of the celebration took place the next day
opposite the camp of the Eighth, where a solemn high mass of requiem
was celebrated to the memory of some sixty persons who had been
garroted on the spot by the public executioner. These were political
prisoners who had suffered in the death chair, by having their necks
broken while held in an iron collar, by a screw driven against their
spinal cord, and operated on the back of the chair, very much as the
screw of a letter press is worked.

An altar, covered with black velvet and decorated with silver
fringe, was erected on the site of these executions. The priests
and acolytes were dressed in black. During the services the Cuban
soldiers rested on their arms, and formed a military guard about the
altar. The Eighth Regiment and the Cuban Infantry Bands furnished
music for the mass. The relatives of the persons executed attended in
deep mourning, and added to the solemnity of the services by their
expressions of intense grief. The corner stone of a monument to the
memory of these patriots was laid with Catholic ceremonies. A detail
from the Engineer Battalion prepared and lowered this stone in place
during the ceremonies.

In the afternoon the school children, dressed in American and Cuban
colors, led by the Eighth Regiment Drum Corps, paraded and held a
festival in the theatre. During the evening there were numerous
balls and fetes and further exercises in the theatre. Twenty men
from each company were given passes and allowed to go into town.
On January 23rd the celebration concluded with a review of all the
troops, before the Municipal Palace, to show that the American troops
sympathized with the inhabitants in their festivities.

On February 9th, a shot was fired by a member of the Eighth Regiment
in the discharge of his duty. It was the stormiest night the regiment
experienced in Cuba. About midnight the sentinel in front of the
Colonel's quarters thought he saw two men coming from the hills and
creeping towards the tents. They refused to halt when challenged. The
sentinel rested his rifle over a corner of the tent, with the muzzle
a few inches above the Colonel's ear and fired. The sentinel reported
that one of the men uttered an exclamation in good strong English,
and the two beat a hasty retreat. As an investigation disclosed
two goats in rear of the camp, it was generally supposed that the
sentinel attributed some general remarks of the Colonel about this
occurrence, to one of the goats.

On February 11th all the troops at Matanzas were reviewed by General
Breckenridge, Inspector General of the United States Army. The
review took place upon the boulevard, and was followed by a careful
inspection of the camps. This inspection was thus commented upon in
his official report to the War Department:--

  "Matanzas Infantry Camp a model. ****** These same soldiers
  had a perfect camp also at Lexington, Kentucky. Such seasoned,
  well-instructed soldiers as the best of these, like the Eighth
  Massachusetts, Twelfth New York, and Third Engineers, and
  such handsome, healthful camps, wrung from adverse nature are
  gratifying to all whoever commanded them, and are to be expected
  from such officers as Generals Wilson and Sanger."

On February 20th the Regiment assisted in the reception of General
Maximo Gomez, the Commander-in-Chief of the Cuban Army. The men of
the Eighth were stationed about five paces apart on each side of the
streets leading from the Plaza to the railroad station. An escort
consisting of six troops of the Second United States Cavalry, the
fire department of the city, societies of citizens, and the school
children, all under the command of Colonel Pew, met the General at
the station, and conducted him between the lines of the Eighth, to
the Municipal Palace. The streets were decorated with flags, and the
citizens turned out in holiday apparel. The General was received with
all the honors due his exalted station and standing in the island.
Enthusiasm was unbounded, and the Cuban General appeared much moved
by the ovation accorded him along the entire route.

Flowers were showered upon him from the balconies, and flags were
everywhere waved. The General was slight in stature, appeared about
seventy years of age, and was mounted on a handsome Cuban charger.

As the procession passed, the members of the Eighth fell in behind
and brought up the rear in columns of fours. At the Municipal Palace
the General reviewed the troops forming his escort. General Gomez
remained in the city a number of days, and upon leaving was escorted
to the railroad station by the Eighth.

During his stay, he visited the camps and spent some time at the
target range, which had been installed under the direction of Major
Eldredge. The General tried his hand at shooting, and received an
excellent score card from Lieutenant Craig, who was in charge of the
range. His visit was made the occasion of a reception and ball given
at the theatre, by all the officers of the Garrison. This ball was
the social function of the season, and was in acknowledgment of the
many courtesies extended to the officers by the citizens of Matanzas.

The Twelfth New York was the first Volunteer Regiment to leave
Matanzas. When the transport which was to carry it home, arrived in
the bay, the band of the Eighth paraded through the line officers
street, and company after company fell in and marched to the camp of
the Twelfth to show the good feeling existing between the regiments.
While marching over the band played "On the Bowery." As the column
passed through the camp of the Twelfth, its band got together and
joined the band of the Eighth on the march back, playing "Home,
Sweet Home." The men of the two regiments fell in together behind
the bands, and after marching through both camps, halted in the open
space between the camps while the bands played "Auld Lang Syne."

On March 21st the Eighth, after evening parade, escorted the Twelfth
New York to the wharf, where it embarked in lighters to go on board
the transport "Meade", which sailed the following day.

On March 27th, orders were issued for the Eighth to be mustered out
in Boston. On April 2nd, the transport "Meade" returned from New
York, and the Eighth was ordered to embark the following day. In the
evening the officers, with the band, called upon General Sanger to
pay respects for the last time to their chief. During most of their
service, they had served in his command. They appreciated the efforts
he had made to maintain their health, and held in high esteem his
qualities as an officer and soldier.

On the afternoon of April 3rd the post flag was lowered in the camp
of the Eighth, and the regiment, numbering 46 officers and 1177
men, embarked. Early the next morning the transport steamed out of
Matanzas Bay, and the foreign service of the regiment was ended.

Just before sailing, a messenger from the Municipal Government
of Matanzas presented the Colonel with an official copy of a
proclamation, which had been adopted and issued by the city the
preceding day.

  "TO THE EIGHTH REGIMENT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

  The brief period which you have spent among us has been
  sufficient to enable us to appreciate your patriotism, your great
  virtues, and your self-sacrifice and generosity. An indelible
  token of eternal gratitude and admiration you leave stamped upon
  our hearts. You are worthy sons of George Washington.

  You are returning to your beloved homes. Return then; There,
  love, friendship and hope await you. Speed you, and be you happy
  there, you who have accomplished in Cuba the greatest moral and
  material undertaking of the 19th century. There you will be able
  to hold up your heads among the great and the good; for great and
  noble also are those who there have contributed to the glory of
  the homeland. Believe therefore, and be assured that you leave
  friends here, brethren whose gratitude will ever cause them to
  love and bless you. Farewell!

  Matanzas, April 3, 1899:
  ALFRED O. CARNOT,
  _Mayor of the City._

  By order of the Council:
  Municipal Residence."




_Muster Out_


The trip to Boston was uneventful, except that sea sickness among the
cooks and the novelty of handling rations on board ship, somewhat
disarranged the commissary department.

Early Sunday morning, April 9th, Boston Light was sighted. At
quarantine, Governor Wolcott boarded the ship bringing the welcome
of the Commonwealth. In the afternoon the regiment disembarked at
the New England docks, and marched to the South Armory. A salute was
tendered the Mayor at City Hall, and the Governor at the State House.
There was a tremendous outpouring of people to welcome the troops,
and their demonstration was magnificent. The soldiers marching with
rhythmic swing and perfect alignment, and their brown, hearty and
healthy appearance, testified to the drill and discipline they had
undergone during their term of service. The regiment was furloughed
to report at the South Armory on April 12th, and the companies were
dismissed to their home stations, where they were received with great
demonstrations of joy and many impromptu celebrations.

On April 12th the companies reported in Boston. The men were
quartered in the South Armory. There was practically nothing for them
to do except guard duty and evening parade on Boston Common. This
parade daily attracted a large crowd of spectators. The clerical
force of each company however, was busy on the muster out rolls, and
the quartermaster's department was straightening out its accounts
with the government, and getting ready for the final reckoning.

On April 19th the men were dismissed to report on April 28th, which
was the day selected for mustering out the regiment.

A day or so previous to muster out a change occurred in the
commissioned officers of the regiment. Captain Jacob C. R. Peabody
of Company H, resigned to accept a position on General Ludlow's
staff. First Lieutenant Augustus G. Reynolds was promoted to captain
of the company, and Second Lieutenant William F. Young of Company D
became first lieutenant of Company H, while Color Sergeant William F.
Marston of Company G was commissioned a second lieutenant in Company
D.

On the morning of April 28th the Eighth reported for its last day
of duty. It did not take long to set the wheels of mustering out in
motion. Every man discharged was given two months extra pay. One
hundred eight thousand dollars in gold and silver representing the
amount due the men was paid out. There was a large crowd present from
all the towns represented by the companies. Captain Erastus M. Weaver
officiated as mustering out officer. It took about half an hour to
muster out each company, and the work was completed by 5.30.

At the time of muster out, the roster of the regiment was as follows,
numerous changes having taken place during its term of service.

Colonel--WILLIAM A. PEW, JR. of Salem.

Lieutenant Colonel--WILLIAM STOPFORD of Beverly.

Majors--FRANK A. GRAVES of Marblehead, and EDWARD H. ELDREDGE of
Boston.

Adjutant--LIEUTENANT THOMAS H. BARROLL of Boston.

Quartermaster--LIEUTENANT CHARLES F. WONSON of Gloucester.

Surgeon--MAJOR WILLIAM COGSWELL of Boston.

Assistant Surgeons--LIEUTENANT FRANK P. T. LOGAN of Gloucester and
LIEUTENANT HORACE BIRD FROST of Boston.

Chaplain--REV. GEORGE D. SANDERS of Gloucester.

Company A, Newburyport--Captain, ALEXANDER G. PERKINS; First
Lieutenant, GEORGE W. LANGDON; Second Lieutenant, GEORGE H. DOW.

Company B, Amesbury--Captain, HORACE S. BEAN; First Lieutenant, FRANK
STINSON; Second Lieutenant, JAMES W. JACKMAN.

Company C, Marblehead--Captain, JAMES M. PETTENGILL; First
Lieutenant, FREDERIC P. SMITH; Second Lieutenant, EDGAR J. WHELPLEY.

Company D, Lynn--Captain, CHARLES T. HILLIKER; First Lieutenant,
THOMAS J. COBY; Second Lieutenant, WILLIAM F. MARSTON.

Company E, Beverly--Captain, FREDERICK W. STOPFORD; First Lieutenant,
CHARLES H. FARNHAM; Second Lieutenant, LORAN J. HARVEY.

Company F, Haverhill--Captain, WILLIAM C. DOW; First Lieutenant, PER
JUSTUS W. SVANBERG; Second Lieutenant, ALEXANDER ROBERTSON.

Company G, Gloucester--Captain, EDWARD J. HORTON; First Lieutenant,
CHARLES M. MCISAAC; Second Lieutenant, CHARLES R. WARNER.

Company H, Salem--Captain, AUGUSTUS G. REYNOLDS; First Lieutenant,
WILLIAM F. YOUNG; Second Lieutenant, THOMAS O. H. PINEAU.

Company I, Lynn--Captain, JOHN E. WILLIAMS; First Lieutenant,
FRANCISCO A. DESOUSA; Second Lieutenant, WILLIAM H. PERRY.

Company K, Danvers--Captain, A. PRESTON CHASE; First Lieutenant,
DAVID E. JEWELL; Second Lieutenant, DAVID F. WHITTIER.

Company L, Lawrence--Captain, JAMES FORBES; First Lieutenant, JAMES
H. CREIG; Second Lieutenant, WILLIAM H. CLENDENNIN.

Company M, Somerville--Captain, HERBERT W. WHITTEN; First Lieutenant,
GEORGE I. CANFIELD; Second Lieutenant, FREDERICK W. PIERCE.

With the muster out of Colonel Pew, the Eighth Regiment Massachusetts
Infantry, U. S. V., ceased to exist, after just a year's service,
reckoning from the day the rolls were opened for volunteers. It was
in the service longer than any other regiment from Massachusetts, and
while it never took part in a battle or skirmish, its record stands
second to no other volunteer regiment in the service of the United
States.




_Welcome Home_


No fault could be found by the members of the regiment with the
receptions they received upon the return of the companies to the
home stations. Although it was Sunday night, the enthusiasm knew no
bounds, and in most places a large procession awaited the arrival of
the company, took it under escort and started for the armory. Later,
in most every place, official receptions were held, but they lacked
the spontaneous enthusiasm which marked the welcome home on the
arrival of the companies from the South Armory, Boston.

As these receptions took place within the year covered by the service
of the regiment, it seems fitting that a brief account of them should
find a place in this history of the organization.

Company A of Newburyport reached home about 9.15 o'clock, but its
coming had been announced some two hours previously, by the sounding
of the militia call on the fire alarm, consequently there was a
tremendous crowd at the station, which gave the command a rousing
cheer as the men stepped from the train.

A delegation of paraders were awaiting the arrival of the company
and the line was soon formed in the following order; Newburyport
Cadet Band; Mayor Huse and members of the city government; Company L,
Massachusetts Naval Brigade; National Band of Newburyport; Company A,
Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.; Newburyport fire department;
Newburyport Bicycle club and Shields Division, A. O. H. The line of
march led through the principal streets which were packed with people
who cheered and burned red fire as the company passed. Wolfe tavern
was finally reached, and there the festivities of the evening ended
with a supper served the members of the company.

On April 23, Company A was officially entertained at a banquet which
was spread in the armory and to which some 400 people sat down. Mayor
Huse presided at the after dinner exercises and there was speaking by
prominent citizens.

The Amesbury company, Company B, arrived from Boston at 9.40 o'clock
and found a large crowd waiting its arrival, the fire alarm having
sounded the warning of the company's approach. All the business
houses were brilliantly illuminated and a salute was fired as the
train rolled into the station. A parade was formed and passed through
the principal streets in the following order; Drum corps; veterans of
Company B; E. P. Wallace Post 122, G. A. R.; high school battalion;
the fire department and Company B, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U.
S. V.

The official welcome home took place on April 26th, when there was a
public reception to the members of the company from 4 to 6 o'clock
at Armory Hall, followed by a big banquet in the evening, at which
time Commander Charles E. Kennard of Post 122, G. A. R. presided and
speeches were made by prominent townspeople.

The Grand Army post, headed by a drum corps, and hundreds of the
people of Marblehead were at the station to welcome home Company C
and gave the members a rousing reception. The company was escorted to
Abbot Hall, where H. C. Sparhawk, chairman of the board of selectmen
welcomed them home in the name of the town, and Captain Pettengill
and Lieutenant Whelpley responded for the company. The men were then
dismissed.

On April 14th, the town was alive with bunting and enthusiasm,
for this was the day of the official welcoming. A big parade was a
feature of the day, the line being formed in the following order:
Thomas Swasey, chief marshal, and staff; Excelsior Drum Corps; John
Goodwin Post, G. A. R., barge containing crippled Civil War veterans;
cannon captured by the U. S. S. Marblehead at Fort Cayo del Torei;
Cuban mine pulled up at Guantanamo by the Marblehead, on drays;
Company C, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.; officers of the
fire department in carriages; Pickett Veteran Firemen's Association;
Lafayette Brass Band of Salem; members of fire department; Phenix
Veteran Firemen's Association; apparatus of the fire department;
Thorner's Rough Riders. There was an exhibition drill by Company C,
a supper and reception. The day's exercises wound up at Abbot Hall,
where Henry C. Sparhawk, of the board of selectmen presided, and
speeches were made by various people. Among the incidents of the day
was the presentation of a button to every member of the company by
the Volunteer Aid Association, through its president, Mrs. Mary E.
Graves.

Central Square, Lynn, was black with people awaiting the home-coming
of the members of Companies D and I of that city, and every train
which passed through with companies aboard, bound homeward, was
greeted with loud cheers. Finally, the Lynn companies arrived, and
the air was rent with cheers, and excitement was at a high pitch.
Cannon boomed and red fire was burned in quantities. Mayor Shepard
had met the company at Boston, and found that it was the wish of
the men to go directly home, so beyond this outburst of enthusiasm,
nothing was done in the way of a welcome, the companies marching
directly to the armory, and the men were there dismissed.

On April 13th, however, Lynn people officially received the
companies in a manner which will not soon be forgotten. The city was
bedecked with bunting, and thousands crowded the streets through
which the parade passed, and cheered to the echo the returned war
veterans. The parade was formed in the following order: General
Charles C. Frye, chief marshal, and staff; Lynn Brass Band; General
Lander Post, No. 5, G. A. R.; Lieutenant-Colonel Mudge Camp, Sons of
Veterans; Lynn Light Infantry Veteran Association; Wooldredge Cadet
Veterans; Lynn Cadet Band; English High School Battalion; Classical
High School Battalion; carriages containing Mayor Shepard, and
members of the city government; Eighth Massachusetts Infantry; U. S.
V. Band; Company I, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.; Company
D, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.; Veterans of Company E,
Massachusetts Naval Brigade; Veterans of the Spanish War. A banquet
at the State Armory followed, at which time 800 plates were laid and
Mayor Shepard acted as toastmaster, and speeches were made by many
prominent people, both in military and civil life.

Mayor Benjamin D. Webber, of Beverly, went to Boston as soon as
he heard that the Transport Meade was in, and together with other
prominent citizens went down the harbor to welcome the members of
Company E. A specially chartered tug was used. Learning that the
company was to come home that night, he telephoned to Beverly the
fact, and upon the arrival of Company E at the station, a large
gathering of people was on hand and welcomed the command with three
rousing cheers. A parade was formed, consisting of a Drum Corps,
Post 89, G. A. R., and John Low Camp, Sons of Veterans, and the line
of march taken up for the armory, where there were short speeches,
followed by a collation.

The official celebration in honor of the return of the volunteers
took place on April 11th, when a parade was formed in the following
order: Captain W. E. Perry, chief marshal, and staff; Beverly Cadet
Band; John H. Chipman Post, 89, G. A. R.; John Low Camp, Sons of
Veterans; Preston Post, 188, G. A. R; Charles Haddock Camp, Sons of
Veterans; barouches containing disabled Civil War veterans and Mayor
Webber and members of the city government; Lynn Brass Band; Company
E, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.; Beverly fire department,
apparatus and men; Bass River Lodge, I. O. O. F.; letter carriers;
Excelsior Drum Corps; Golden Star Council, O. U. A. M.; Young Men's
Catholic Temperance Society; Ancient Order of Hibernians; Bass River
Court of Forresters; carriages containing members of Roger Conant
Council, Royal Arcanum, and Beverly Lodge, Knights of Pythias;
four-horse drag with members of Jubilee Yacht Club; carriages
containing citizens.

After the parade, the members of the company enjoyed a New England
boiled dinner at the armory, and in the evening attended exercises
at the City Hall. Mayor Webber presided, speeches were made by
representative citizens, and the school children sang patriotic songs.

On the evening of April 28th, the members of the company were
tendered a banquet at City Hall, Mayor Webber making a speech of
welcome and presiding the remainder of the evening, during which
various prominent citizens responded to toasts. The galleries were
filled with people, they having been thrown open to the public.

Company F, of Haverhill, arrived home rather unexpectedly at 8.15 P.
M., but Mayor Chase was awake and the city was not caught napping.
There was a good-sized crowd present at the depot, and it enlarged
every minute, so that by the time the parade moved, the streets
were filled with a shouting, cheering people. The parade formed as
follows: Haverhill City Band; Major How Post, 47, G. A. R.; General
Burnside Command, Veterans' Union; Provisional Company, State
Militia; Eighth Regiment Drum Corps; Company F, Eighth Massachusetts
Infantry, U. S. V.; carriages containing Mayor Chase and members of
the city government.

It was 11.15 P. M. before the members of Company G returned once more
to Gloucester. For several hours a crowd had awaited their coming at
the depot, the military call on the fire alarm having notified the
citizens that the company was on its way home. Although the hour was
late, there was plenty of enthusiasm, and salutes were fired and red
fire burned. A parade was formed, made up in the following order:
Gloucester Band; Massachusetts Naval Brigade, mounted detachment
of citizens; Colonel Allen Post 45, G. A. R.; Company G, Eighth
Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.; delegations from the various
fire companies; Wingaersheek Band; Wingaersheek Tribe of Red Men;
Gloucester Council Knights of Columbus; Portuguese Acoriana Society;
carriages containing prominent citizens.

On April 14th, the official celebration took place, when a big parade
passed through the principal streets of the city, in the following
order: Fitz E. Oaks, chief marshal, and staff; Gloucester Band;
Company M, Massachusetts Naval Brigade; High School Cadet Battalion;
Colonel Allen Post 45, G. A. R.; Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S.
V. Band; Company G, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.; members
of the fire department; J. Franklin Dyer Camp, Sons of Veterans;
Hutchinson's Military Band; Ocean Lodge, I. O. O. F.; Wingaersheek
Tribe, Red Men; Fernwood Lodge, A. O. U. W.; Gloucester Council,
Knights of Columbus; St. Angelo Council, Knights of Malta; Acoriana
Beneficiary Society; carriages containing distinguished citizens;
mounted men.

In the evening there was a big banquet, at which time Judge Taft
presided and there were speeches by men in the public life of
Gloucester, and men in military circles.

When Company H, of Salem, reached home, it found thousands of people
awaiting its return. The churches had dismissed their congregations
that the members might unite with the other citizens in a royal
welcoming of the soldier boys. Red fire was burned freely and there
were salutes. At the station, a big parade awaited the volunteers,
and taking the company under escort, marched to the Armory, where
the men were dismissed. The parade was as follows: Salem Cadet Band;
Second Corps Cadets, M. V. M.; Phil H. Sheridan Post 34, G. A. R.;
postal clerks and carriers; Salem Light Infantry Veteran Association;
Mayor James H. Turner and members of the city government; Army
and Navy League; Company H, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S.
V. The fire alarm had sounded an agreed upon signal, which gave
those intending to parade time enough to gather at the various
headquarters. Mayor Turner had met the company in Boston and made the
arrangements for the affair.

Tuesday, April 11th, was the day set aside for the official
celebration, and the streets were lined with thousands, who cheered
and shouted, but it was not the spontaneous outburst that had been
given the company when it first arrived home.

The parade passed through the principal streets of the city, and was
made up as follows: Colonel Samuel A. Johnson, chief marshal, and
staff; Salem Cadet Band; Second Corps Cadets, M. V. M.; Phil H.
Sheridan Post 34, G. A. R.; Army and Navy League; Lieutenant-Colonel
Henry Merritt Camp, Sons of Veterans; carriages containing disabled
members of the G. A. R., and Mayor Turner and members of the city
government; National Guards Band; Salem Light Infantry Veteran
Association; Company H, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.;
Salem Brass Band; Salem Letter Carriers and Postal clerks; Salem
Fire Department; Salem Veteran Firemen's Association; Salem Drum
Corps; Father Mathews Total Abstinence Society; St. Joseph's Benefit
Society; street department drivers, mounted.

In the evening the Salem Light Infantry Veteran Association tendered
a banquet to the volunteers in the armory at the Franklin building.
Captain John P. Reynolds acted as toastmaster, and a number of
distinguished citizens and military guests responded to the toasts.

The West Peabody Brass Band, Ward Post 90, G. A. R. and ex-members of
Company K, were found waiting at the depot by the members of Company
K of Danvers, when they stepped from the train. Line was immediately
formed and through a lane of red fire and cheering citizens, the
company marched to the armory, partook of a lunch and then separated
for their homes.

On April 11 the town officially received her sons back from the
Spanish war with a parade, reception and banquet. The parade formed
in the following order: Chief Marshal F. U. French and staff;
cavalcade of citizens; West Peabody Brass Band; Ward Post 90, G.
A. R.; carriages containing the selectmen and guests; Company K,
Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.; ex-members of Company K and
citizens; school children.

After the parade a reception was in progress at the Town Hall for
two hours, after which the line was re-formed and the party proceeded
to the armory, where a fine banquet was served, followed by speeches
from prominent townspeople and guests, M. C. Pettengill acting as
presiding officer.

Mayor Eaton went to Boston, met the members of Company L, and
telephoned word back to Lawrence that the company was coming home.
The fire alarm was immediately blown and as at the other places, the
company was met by a big crowd at the depot, and a procession to
escort it to its armory. Battery C, M. V. M. fired a salute as the
train rolled into the station. The parade formed in the following
order: Colonel Donovan, chief marshal; band; Battery C, M. V. M.;
Company F, Ninth Infantry, M. V. M.; Colonel Sargeant camp, Sons of
Veterans; band; Needham Post 39, G. A. R.; drum corps; seven fire
companies; Gratton Guards; citizens committee; Company L, Eighth
Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.; city government and citizens in
carriages. The parade marched directly to the armory, where the
volunteers were dismissed.

Through a misunderstanding on the part of somebody, there was no one
to welcome home the members of Company M, at Somerville, and when
they arrived at the armory they found the place locked and deserted.
Finally the police were secured and the doors forced open and the
command marched inside. After giving three cheers for the city and
the company, the men were dismissed.

Somerville citizens more than made up for the lack of cordiality on
the night of the return home, by the enthusiastic reception they
gave the company and other Somerville volunteers at the official
welcome home which took place on April 19. The principal part of the
day's programme was a big parade, which moved through the principal
streets, packed with cheering people, in the following order: Chief
Marshal, F. DeWitt Lapham and staff; platoon of 20 members of the
National Lancers, M. V. M.; First Regiment Band; company of letter
carriers; Bunker Hill Cadet Band; Bunker Hill Guards, Division 37, A.
O. H.; Davitt Guards, Division 40, A. O. H.; Knights of Sacred Heart
Drum Corps; Knights of Sacred Heart; Somerville Veteran Firemen's
Association; T. F. Meagher Drum Corps; W. C. Kingsley Post 139, G. A.
R.; Company M, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, U. S. V.; unattached
soldiers and sailors; carriages containing city officials and guests.

Following the parade, the company and invited guests were given light
refreshments at Bow Street hall, after which many speeches were made,
Alderman Wilson acting as presiding officer.

In the evening, at 6 o'clock, the company was banquetted in Beacon
hall, where plates were spread for a large gathering. After the
banquet had been enjoyed, Alderman Wilson, who again acted as
chairman, rapped for order and speeches followed by prominent city
officials and guests.




_The Roll of Honor_


In every war the percentage of deaths from disease is greater than of
deaths on the battlefield, and the Spanish war was no exception. Of
the hundreds of Massachusetts young men who volunteered and answered
the call of President McKinley for troops, 292 were called upon to
sacrifice their lives for their country.

Of this number, but nine were killed or died of wounds on the
battlefield, the remaining 283 dying of disease or meeting death in
an accidental manner.

The First Massachusetts Heavy Artillery lost one man during its term
of service; the Second Massachusetts Infantry had nine killed or
died of wounds received in battle and 89 died of disease; the Fifth
Massachusetts Infantry lost nine men during its term of service;
the Sixth Massachusetts Infantry lost 26 men during its term of
service; the Eighth Massachusetts Infantry lost 31 men, and the Ninth
Massachusetts Infantry 125 men. The Naval Brigade, during its term
of service, lost two men, making the total number of men who were
killed, died of wounds or disease, 292.

Of this number, as the foregoing list will show, the Eighth
Massachusetts Infantry contributed the lives of one officer and 30
enlisted men, to which might be added the name of Private Charles A.
Currier of Company B, who died soon after being transferred to the
Hospital Corps, U. S. A.

The great majority of these men died in the hospitals in the south,
far from home and friends. They gave up their lives willingly to
their country's cause, and who is there to say that theirs was not
as much a hero's death as that of the men who fell while bravely
charging through the Cuban jungles or up the steep slope of San Juan
Hill.


The roll of honor of the Eighth is as follows:


May 28, 1898.--Private Herbert O. Burnham of Company D of Lynn, of
pneumonia, at regimental hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

May 29--Private Clarence L. Bartol of Company C of Marblehead, of
heart disease, at regimental hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

June 11--Corporal Clarence R. Stewart of Company M of Somerville, of
pneumonia, at regimental hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

June 13--Private Timothy O. Lamprey of Company B of Amesbury, of
appendicitis, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

July 18--Private Harvey Dunn of Company L of Lawrence, of typhoid
fever, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

August 2--Private Frank A. Hinckley of Company I of Lynn, of typhoid
fever, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

August 4--Corporal John M. Doran of Company G of Gloucester, of
typhoid fever, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

August 7--Private Walter D. Thompson of Company I of Lynn, of
malarial fever, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park,
Georgia.

August 19--Musician Spencer S. Hobbs of Company K of Danvers, of
typhoid fever, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

August 26--Private Joseph Pocket of Company I of Lynn, of typhoid
fever, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

September 2--Sergeant Frank E. Draper of Company M of Somerville, of
typhoid fever, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

September 3--Private Kenneth G. Constine of Company B of Amesbury, of
typhoid fever, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

September 6--Private John F. Dottridge of Company D of Lynn, of
typhoid fever, at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington,
Kentucky.

September 6--Sergeant Fred Thomas of Company F of Haverhill, of
typhoid fever, at Sternberg General Hospital, Chickamauga Park,
Georgia.

September 6--Corporal George Patten of Company B of Amesbury, of
typhoid fever, while on furlough at Amesbury, Massachusetts.

September 7--Sergeant John F. Balch of Company A of Newburyport, of
typhoid fever, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

September 13--Private Henry A. Deasy of Company H of Salem, of
typhoid fever, while on furlough at Kingston, New Hampshire.

September 15--Private Michael J. Hayes of Company I of Lynn, of
dysentery, at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

September 17--Corporal John H. Nichols of Company H of Salem, of
typhoid fever, at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington,
Kentucky.

September 18--Private Rolvin G. Coombs of Company B of Amesbury,
of typhoid fever, at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington,
Kentucky.

September 19--Private George F. Walen of Company G of Gloucester,
of typhoid fever, at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington,
Kentucky.

September 22--Private John F. Hanson of Company L of Lawrence, of
typhoid fever, at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington,
Kentucky.

September 22--Private George O. Cook of Company D of Lynn, while on
furlough at Dorchester, Massachusetts.

September 24--Corporal Henry Higgins of Company B of Amesbury, of
typhoid fever, at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington,
Kentucky.

September 30--Private William B. Cahoon of Company G of Gloucester,
of peritonitis, at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington,
Kentucky.

October 8--Private William H. Florence of Company C of Marblehead, of
bright's disease, at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington,
Kentucky.

October 10--Private William D. Curley of Company G of Gloucester,
of typhoid fever, at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington,
Kentucky.

October 20--Private Thomas Sweeney of Company B of Amesbury, of
malarial fever, at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington,
Kentucky.

October 24--First Lieutenant Francis H. Downey of Company I of Lynn,
of pneumonia and fever, at St. Joseph's Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky.

March 3, 1899.--Private Lewis F. Channell of Company F of Haverhill,
of typhoid fever, on board the U. S. Hospital Ship "Missouri," off
Cuba.

March 15--Private Charles W. Benson of Company C of Marblehead, of
malarial fever, on board U. S. Hospital Ship "Missouri," off Cuba.


August 9--Private Charles A. Currier, U. S. Hospital Corps, formerly
member of Company B of Amesbury, of exhaustion following typhoid
fever, on board U. S. Hospital Ship "Relief" off Ponce, Porto Rico.




_Some Statistics_


During the year of service in the volunteers 1465 names were borne
upon the rolls of the Eighth Massachusetts Regiment. This does not
necessarily mean that 1465 different men were connected with the
regiment, for that was not so, for some of the men's names appear
upon the rolls twice, such as when an enlisted man was promoted to
be an officer, or when an officer was transferred from one company
to another, or an enlisted man transferred from a company to the
regimental band.

The following figures will no doubt be of interest to the men who
served in the regiment.

Of the officers of the regiment 46 were mustered out with the
regiment, 12 resigned and were discharged, one died, one was
discharged by reason of promotion outside the regiment, and four were
discharged for promotion in the regiment.

Of the enlisted men, 1161 were mustered out, 53 were discharged
for disability, 5 were discharged because they were minors, 2 were
discharged (no reason given), 51 were discharged by order, (the
majority for physical unfitness), 11 were discharged for promotion;
6 were dishonorably discharged; 71 were discharged by reason of
transfer, 30 died, and 11 deserted.

       *       *       *       *       *

The record by companies is as follows:


Field and staff--Ten mustered out and three resigned. Total 13.

Non-Commissioned staff--Nine mustered out with the regiment and three
were discharged by order. Total 12.

Band--Twenty were mustered out with the regiment. Total 20.

Company A, Newburyport--Three officers and 96 men were mustered out
with the regiment, one man was discharged for disability; one man
was discharged by reason of being a minor; two men were discharged
by order; one man was dishonorably discharged; five men were
transferred; one man died and two men deserted. Total 112.

Company B, Amesbury--Three officers and 96 men were mustered out with
the regiment; one officer was discharged for promotion; ten men were
discharged for disability; three men were discharged by order; eight
men were transferred and six men died. Total 127.

Company C, Marblehead--Three officers and 97 men were mustered out
with the regiment; two officers resigned; seven men were discharged
for disability; one man was discharged by order; two men were
transferred; three men died and two men deserted. Total 117.

Company D, Lynn--Three officers and 94 men were mustered out with the
regiment; one officer was discharged for promotion; three men were
discharged for disability; three men were discharged by order; two
men were dishonorably discharged; ten men were transferred; three
died and two deserted. Total 121.

Company E, Beverly--Three officers and 96 men were mustered out
with the regiment; one officer and one enlisted man were discharged
for promotion; one man was discharged; two men were discharged
for disability; two men were discharged by order; one man was
dishonorably discharged and eight men were transferred. Total 115.

Company F, Haverhill--Three officers and 96 men were mustered out
with the regiment; one officer and two enlisted men were discharged
for promotion; four men were discharged for disability; five men were
transferred and two died. Total 113.

Company G, Gloucester--Three officers and 92 men were mustered out
with the regiment; one officer resigned; four men were discharged for
disability; one was discharged by reason of being a minor; ten men
were discharged by order; one man was discharged for promotion; one
man was dishonorably discharged; four men were transferred and four
died. Total 121.

Company H, Salem--Three officers and 91 men were mustered out with
the regiment; two officers resigned; one officer was discharged
for promotion outside the regiment; six men were discharged for
disability; ten men were discharged by order; two men were discharged
for promotion; six men were transferred and two died. Total 123.

Company I, Lynn--Three officers and 94 men were mustered out with the
regiment; one officer died; one man was discharged for disability;
one man was discharged; five men were discharged by order; two men
were discharged for promotion; four men were transferred; four died
and two deserted. Total 117.

Company K, Danvers--Three officers and 93 men were mustered out with
the regiment; two officers resigned; five men were discharged for
disability; six men were discharged by order; one man was discharged
for promotion; one man was dishonorably discharged; four men were
transferred, one died and one deserted. Total 117.

Company L, Lawrence--Three officers and 98 men were mustered out with
the regiment; two officers resigned; two men were discharged for
disability; two men were discharged by reason of being minors; one
man was discharged by order; one man was discharged for promotion;
five men were transferred, two died and one deserted. Total 117.

Company M, Somerville--Three officers and 89 men were mustered out
with the regiment; eight men were discharged for disability; one man
was discharged by reason of being a minor; five men were discharged
by order; one man was discharged by promotion; ten men were
transferred; two died and one deserted. Total 120.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the foregoing it will be seen that Company B of Amesbury had the
largest number of entries upon its rolls during the year, 127, while
Company F of Haverhill had the smallest, 113. Company E of Beverly
was the only company which did not have a death among its members
during the term of service.

There were ten states and eighty-nine cities and towns represented in
the regiment, according to the residences as given upon the muster
out roll on file at the Adjutant-General's office, at the State House.

The ten states were Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
Rhode Island, New York, Ohio, Minnesota, Pennsylvania and Georgia.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cities and towns represented, and the number of men furnished the
regiment by each, are as follows:

Lynn 214; Salem 168; Haverhill 145; Lawrence 114; Newburyport 101;
Somerville 99; Amesbury 96; Gloucester 95; Marblehead 74; Beverly 72,
and Danvers 45. These eleven places represent the home stations of
the companies comprising the regiment; Lynn, of course, furnishing
two companies to the command.

The other places represented in the regiment were as follows: Peabody
19; Boston 20; Lowell 19; Cambridge 15; Marlboro 14; Swampscott
6; Topsfield 8; Merrimac 2; Middleton 4; Ipswich 6; Hamilton 3;
Manchester 2; Essex 3; North Andover 5; Andover 3; Saugus 2; Rockport
8; Melrose 2; Worcester 3; Milford 4; Wakefield 3; South Framingham
5; Greenwood 2; Fitchburg 5; Webster 2; Southbridge 5; Dorchester
7; Charlestown 6; Waltham 2; Chelsea 2; North Cambridge 2; West
Somerville 2; Allston 3; South Lawrence 2; Medford 2; Americus,
Georgia, 2; and South Boston; Everett; Quincy; Wellesley Hills; East
Boston; Pawtucket, R. I.; West Chelmsford; Cambridgeport; Freedom,
N. H.; Washington Court House, Ohio; Concord; Cambridge, Vermont;
Lewiston, Penn.; Middleboro; Portland, Me.; Chatfield, Minn.; Revere;
Seabrook, N. H.; Stoneham; Pittsfield; Newton; Staten Island, New
York; Hingham; Winchester; Cleveland, Ohio; Milton; Keene, N. H.;
Stowe; Roxbury; Madrid, N. H.,; South Hampton, N. H.; Saco, Me.;
Reading; Hyde Park; Kingston, N. H.; Brockton; Dedham; Roslindale;
Cliftondale; Wenham; Boxford and Salisbury, one each.

Of the original men who went to South Framingham with the regiment,
the greater number were single, the muster rolls showing a large
percentage of single men. The companies were then allowed 77 men, and
the figures are as follows:

                                 Married.  Single.  Total.

  Company A, Newburyport,           12       65      77
  Company B, Amesbury,              16       61      77
  Company C, Marblehead,            15       62      77
  Company D, Lynn,                  15       62      77
  Company E, Beverly,                9       68      77
  Company F, Haverhill,             20       57      77
  Company G, Gloucester,            13       64      77
  Company H, Salem,                 14       63      77
  Company I, Lynn,                  12       65      77
  Company K, Danvers,                5       72      77
  Company L, Lawrence,              17       60      77
  Company M, Somerville,            13       64      77
  Field and Staff and N. C. O.
  Staff,                            10        9      19
                                   ---      ---     ---
  Totals,                          170      773     943

On the following pages will be found a complete roster of the
regiment, containing the name of every man who served in the regiment
during its year of service.

The record of each man is a copy of that contained in the muster out
roll, now on file at the Adjutant General's office, State House,
Boston, Mass.

The greatest possible care has been taken to avoid errors, and in
only one case was a change made in a man's record. Upon the muster
out roll the man was charged with being a deserter and also with
having been discharged honorably. After consultation with the company
commander, it was decided that the man should be given the benefit
of an honorable discharge, especially as he was not classified as a
deserter in the summary at the end of the company roll.

It will be noticed that two men, both of whom were former members of
the First Massachusetts Heavy Artillery are credited as enlisting
from Americus, Georgia. This is so stated upon the muster out roll,
and consequently is so printed. They were probably mustered into the
regiment in the Georgia town, hence the reason for being credited to
it. In a few cases the date of transfer of a man from a company to
the band does not agree, one date being recorded on the band roll and
another on the company roll. This is sometimes true as to his place
of residence, but the muster out rolls were followed in these cases.

The full record of the men transferred to the Reserve Ambulance
company, U. S. A., or the Hospital Corps, U. S. A., has been added to
the record. Their record on the muster out roll ends with the day of
their transfer from the regiment, but it was thought best to publish
their full service record, which was secured from the War Department,
through the courtesy of Hon. A. P. Gardner, representative in
Congress from the Sixth Massachusetts district.




_Field and Staff_


  PEW, WILLIAM A. JR., Salem, Colonel, April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.

  Assigned to command Second Brigade, Third Division, First Army
  Corps, May 20 to June 29. Commander of Second Brigade, First Army
  Corps, October 28 to October 31, also from November 1 to November
  3, and December 17 to December 24.


  BAILEY, EDWIN W. M., Amesbury, Lieutenant-Colonel, April 28,
  1898, resigned October 28, 1898.

  In command of the regiment from May 19 to June 29.


  STOPFORD, WILLIAM, Beverly, Major, April 28, 1898;
  Lieutenant-Colonel, October 31, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  On recruiting service June 11 to June 20. Commanded regiment
  by reason of seniority, October 24; October 29 to November 4;
  November 8, 17, 18, 27, 28; December 18 to 25, 1898; January 31,
  February 1, 22, 25, 26; March 23 to 25, 1899.


  GRAVES, FRANK A., Marblehead, Major, April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.

  Special duty on General Court Martial, October 26 to November 23
  and on detached service, General Court Martial, November 23 to
  December 21.


  ELDREDGE, EDWARD H., Boston, Major, April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.

  Special duty as Inspector Rifle Practice, Third Division, First
  Army Corps, June 30 to July 24. Inspector Rifle Practice,
  Second Brigade, Third Division, First Army Corps, December 13
  until departure for Cuba. Inspector Rifle Practice, District of
  Matanzas, January 12, 1899. Special duty as Provost Marshal,
  District of Matanzas, February 27 to April 3.


  COGSWELL, WILLIAM, Boston, Surgeon, April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.

  Special duty with Ambulance Corps, First Army Corps, June 20 to
  July 9. Special duty as Brigade Surgeon, September 22 to December
  16. Division Inspector at Lexington, Kentucky, September 27 to
  November 6.


  BARROLL, THOMAS D., Boston, Adjutant, April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.

  Special duty as Acting Assistant Adjutant-General, Second
  Brigade, Third Division, First Army Corps, May 20 to June 19.


  WONSON, CHARLES F., Gloucester, Quartermaster, April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Special duty as Acting Commissary Subsistence, and Acting
  Assistant Quartermaster, Second Brigade, Third Division, First
  Army Corps, May 20 to July 7. Acting Assistant Quartermaster,
  Second Brigade hospital, November 7 to December 17, 1898. Special
  duty as Depot Quartermaster at Americus, Georgia, December 25 to
  January 8, 1899.


  LOGAN, FRANK P. T., Gloucester, Assistant Surgeon, April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Special duty at Division Hospital, Third Division, First Army
  Corps, June 10 to December 20.


  FROST, HORACE B., Boston, Assistant Surgeon, August 26, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Acting Regimental Surgeon September 22 to December 16, 1898.
  Special duty as Assistant Inspector of Sanitary Conditions,
  District of Matanzas, January 30 to April 3, 1899.


  JENKINS, THOMAS L., Topsfield, Assistant Surgeon, April 28, 1898;
  resigned July 11, 1898.


  SANDERS, GEORGE D., Gloucester, Chaplain, April 28, 1898;
  resigned October 7, 1898; re-commissioned Chaplain, January 6,
  1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Special duty as chairman of the Commission of Charities and
  Corrections, District of Matanzas, January 28, 1899, until muster
  out.




_Non-Commissioned Staff_


  SANBORN, JOHN R., Haverhill, Sergeant-Major, February 1, 1899;
  mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company F.)


  DODGE, JULIAN M., Hamilton, Sergeant-Major, April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, January 5, 1899.


  PERKINS, CHARLES F., Salem, Quartermaster-Sergeant, April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  SPAULDING, CHARLES L., Beverly, Hospital Steward, April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  BURNHAM, E. BENNETT, Essex, Hospital Steward, April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  WOOD, GEORGE A., Lynn, Hospital Steward, April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  THOMAS, WALTER H., Haverhill, Chief Musician, April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  STILES, HARRY E., Lynn, enlisted private, January 4, 1899, as
  per authority Secretary of War, in letter of October 11, 1898;
  appointed Principal Musician, January 19, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  BANAN, FREDERICK, Lawrence, Principal Musician, April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order January 14, 1899.


  CLOHECY, PATRICK, Haverhill, Principal Musician, April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order December 4, 1898.


  JOHNSON, EDGAR J., Lawrence, Principal Musician, February 1,
  1899; mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company D.)


  BERRY, WILLIAM F., Greenwood, Band Sergeant, March 1, 1899;
  mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company M.)




_The Band_


  BOUCHER, ALFRED, Haverhill, enlisted Company D, April 28, 1898;
  transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  BRASSEUR, GEORGE D., Haverhill, enlisted Company F, April 28,
  1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  CROWLEY, HERBERT L., North Cambridge, enlisted Company M, April
  28, 1898; transferred to band March 20, 1899; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  CUMMINGS, JOHN A., West Somerville, enlisted Company M, April 28,
  1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  DICKIE, WILLIAM A., Newburyport, enlisted musician, Company A,
  April 28, 1898; transferred to band March 20, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  DROLET, CHARLES F., Rockport, enlisted Company G, April 28, 1898;
  transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  GIVAN, CHARLES F., Charlestown, enlisted Company M, June 20,
  1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  GOETTE, ALBERT H., Cambridgeport, enlisted Company M, June 29,
  1898; transferred to band March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  GREENLAY, JOSEPH B., Haverhill, enlisted corporal, Company F,
  April 28, 1898; transferred to band March 20, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  HEFFERNAN, PATRICK J., Haverhill, enlisted musician, Company H,
  April 28, 1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  JAMES, CHARLES T., Allston, enlisted Company M, April 28, 1898;
  transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  LARKIN, JOHN, West Chelmsford, enlisted Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, June 22, 1898; transferred from band Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry to Company B, Eighth Massachusetts
  Infantry, January 1, 1899; transferred to band from Company B,
  March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  MCBARRON, JAMES H., Boston, enlisted musician Company M, April
  28, 1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  MINER, HERBERT W., Haverhill, enlisted musician, Company F, April
  28, 1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  MITCHELL, CHARLES R., South Lawrence, enlisted Company B, April
  28, 1898; transferred to band March 20, 1899; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  MUDGETT, WILLIAM L., Haverhill, enlisted musician, Company B,
  April 28, 1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  PHILLIPS, WILLIAM N., South Lawrence, enlisted musician, Company
  L, April 28, 1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  SWEETSER, FREDERIC J., Haverhill, enlisted Company E, April 28,
  1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  STICKNEY, HORACE I., Lynn, enlisted musician, Company D, April
  28, 1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  TAYLOR, EDWARD P., Lynn, enlisted Company I, April 28, 1898;
  transferred to band, March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.




_Company A, Newburyport_


  Perkins, Alexander G., Newburyport, Captain, April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Commanded the Second Battalion by reason of seniority, October 27
  to November 8 and November 19 to December 22, 1898.


  Langdon, George W., Newburyport, First Lieutenant, April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Detailed Battalion Adjutant, May 11 to 19; Acting Regimental
  Adjutant, May 20 to June 19. Battalion Adjutant, June 20 to 31;
  Regimental Inspector Rifle Practice, July 1 to 29; Inspector
  Rifle Practice Second Brigade, Third Division, First Army Corps,
  July 30 to August 19; Battalion Adjutant, September 20 to October
  14, Inspector Small Arms Practice, First Army Corps, October 15,
  1898 to January 5, 1899.


  Dow, George H., Newburyport, Second Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  mustered out, April 28, 1899.

  Commanded the company by reason of seniority October 12 to 21 and
  October 29 to November 8. Provost Marshal, Americus, Georgia,
  November 12, 1898 to January 8, 1899.


  Miller, Edward, Newburyport, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  First Sergeant September 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Gould, Harlan W., Newburyport, Quartermaster-Sergeant, enlisted
  April 28, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Roberts, William H., Newburyport, First Sergeant, enlisted April
  28, 1898; mustered out as Sergeant April 28, 1899.


  Howard, Charles W., Newburyport, Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Connell, John, Newburyport, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Kelley, John J., Newburyport, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant September 20, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Fields, Benjamin, Newburyport, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Flagg, Joseph G., Newburyport, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hay, Frederick J., Newburyport, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Jackman, Fred C., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  O'Beirne, Edward Jr., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McGlew, Hugh, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  September 20, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Monyihan, Cornelius P., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  O'Connor, Patrick J., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, November 23, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Williams, George F., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898;
  Corporal, November 23, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Davis, John F., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  November 23, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Erickson, John O., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, February 17, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hall, William E., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  (cook), February 17, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Kilborn, John A., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  March 12, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Danforth, Edward C., Newburyport, Musician, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Preble, Charles E., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Musician, March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Burns, Jeremiah, Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; Wagoner,
  September 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Horgan, John J., Newburyport, Artificer, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Argyle, John H., Newburyport, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Bunker, Willard F., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Barry, George F., Newburyport, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order February 15, 1899.


  Barrett, Joseph J., Newburyport, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; discharged by order February 17, 1899.


  Boardman, Charles A., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Balch, John P., Newburyport, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  died at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia,
  September 7, 1898.


  Brainard, Charles H., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Brady, William H., Salem, enlisted July 2, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Buckler, Frank J., Newburyport, enlisted July 1, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Buckley, Matthew F., Newburyport, enlisted June 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Burns, Andrew J., Newburyport, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Chisnall, Joseph E., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Curtis, Philip E., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Cilley, James T., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Coburn, Albert T., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Cook, John E. H., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Carolan, Charles, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Clarke, Robert E., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Carver, Verner A., Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dickie, William A., Newburyport, Musician, enlisted April 28,
  1898; transferred to band March 20, 1899.


  Donahue, Daniel F., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Reserve Ambulance Company, U. S. A., June 29,
  1898; discharged, April 12, 1899.


  Dineen, John J., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  England, Albert G., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  dishonorably discharged February 25, 1899.


  Eastman, F. Leonard, Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Reserve Ambulance Company, U. S. A., June 29,
  1898; discharged January 13, 1899.


  Follensbee, Arthur D., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  deserted October 4, 1898.


  Fowler, Andrew J., Seabrook, N. H., enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Greenaway, William F., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Goodwin, Harry L., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order March 17, 1899; order revoked, April 22,
  1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Gray, Harven J., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898;
  discharged May 12, 1899.


  Hall, Oscar F., Haverhill, enlisted July 5, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898; discharged January 6,
  1899.


  Hill, Walter, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hazlewood, Fred, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Healey, Frank J., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hennessey, Ernest W., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Heaney, Michael F., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hopkinson, Edgar G., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hopkinson, George H., Newburyport, enlisted July 1, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hosman, Charles, Newburyport, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Janvrin, Joshua, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Janvrin, John, Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Joy, Walter, Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Kelso, George H., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Looney, George J., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Lambert, Otis, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McFadden, Owen J., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  McDonald, Peter L., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Metcalf, Chester A., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McShane, James B., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  McCullough, Robert R., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Murphy, John J., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Moriarty, Jeremiah, Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  McMahon, William W., Salem, enlisted July 2, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McCarthy, Richard F., Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Morrill, L. Edward, Newburyport, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Norton, John E., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  O'Connor, John S., Salem, enlisted July 2, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  O'Connell, Jeffrey J., Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Oliver, William H., Newburyport, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Pickard, George A., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Poore, Edwin H., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898: discharged
  as a minor, June 30, 1898.


  Pearson, Alfred Jr., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Powers, Fred W., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898: mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Patterson, Frank C., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Robinson, John, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898: mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Shea, Charles, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Sargent, Donn D., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Sargent, John C., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Smith, William F., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Spear, Thomas W., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Sheehan, Bartholomew, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Steen, Edward W. P., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Shields, John J., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; deserted
  September 16, 1898.


  Spofford, Amos L., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Sanders, Joseph E., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Sullivan, John L., Newburyport, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Twomey, Hugh, Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Tobin, James E., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Tobey, Herbert A., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Tobey, Edward E., Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Terry, John, Newburyport, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Tyman, John L., Salem, enlisted July 2, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Upton, John M., Salem, enlisted July 2, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Watts, David, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Watts, Charles, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability, January 4, 1899.


  White, George, Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Wall, William B., Newburyport, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.




_Company B, Amesbury_


  Bean, Horace S., Amesbury, Captain, April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.

  Commanded First Battalion by reason of seniority, June 10 to July
  21; December 20, 1898 to January 19, 1899. Detached service,
  distributing rations, Matanzas, Cuba, January 19 to April 3, 1899.


  Pettingell, John M., Amesbury, First Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  commanding Company, June 10 to July 20; discharged for promotion,
  January 17, 1899. (See Company C.)

  Assigned as Commanding Officer, Company C, December 21, 1898.


  Stinson, Frank, Amesbury, Second Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  First Lieutenant, January 4, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Acting Regimental Adjutant, October 1 to 22. Detached service
  as Aide-de-camp to General Waites, October 26 to November 4.
  Regimental commissary, November 4, 1898 to April 28, 1899.


  Jackman, James W., Topsfield, Second Lieutenant, January 21,
  1899; mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company K.)


  Higgins, Michael S., Amesbury, First Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Manahan, Ezra F., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, December 26, 1898; Sergeant, February 17, 1899;
  Quartermaster-Sergeant, February 17, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Sweet, Frank M., Amesbury, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Melia, John J., Amesbury, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Granigan, John S., Amesbury, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Parker, Martin H., Amesbury, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Walsh, Nicholas L., Amesbury, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Burke, James R., Amesbury, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Moisan, Joseph E., Amesbury, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Ware, Samuel E., Amesbury, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Farrell, John J., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Moisan, Eugene J., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Peterson, Fred G., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Sanders, Arthur L., Salem, enlisted July 8, 1898; Corporal,
  December 26, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Boardman, Fred B., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  February 17, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Fowden, Arthur, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  February 17, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Locke, Manford E., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  February 17, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Cyr, Louis, Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; Corporal (cook),
  February 17, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Taylor, William J., Merrimac, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Gage, Henry W., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; Musician,
  March 22, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Lundquist, John A., Amesbury, Artificer, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hibbs, Frank F., Amesbury, Wagoner, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Ariel, Edward H., Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Bailey, Warren A., Merrimac, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Baker, Martin H., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Bean, Oscar W., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged for
  disability January 4, 1899.


  Blaisdell, Harry, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability, January 11, 1899.


  Bolan, Michael J., Amesbury, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Bonnar, William H., Amesbury, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Bourbeau, Oliver J., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Bragdon, Edward L., South Framingham, enlisted Company E, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company B,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Brooks, John C., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Burns, John, Wakefield, enlisted Company H, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, June 27, 1898; transferred to Company B, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, January 11, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Campbell, William, Amesbury, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Chartier, Frank X., Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 15, 1898; transferred to Company B,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Clisbee, Walter A., Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; Corporal, July 11, 1898;
  transferred to Company B, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January
  11, 1899; mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Cole, Joseph, Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Collis, Charles M., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Currier, Charles A., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Reserve Ambulance Company, U. S. A., July 3, 1898;
  died on Hospital Ship "Relief," August 9, 1898.


  Constine, Kenneth G., Madrid, N. H., enlisted May 5, 1898; died
  at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia, September
  3, 1898.


  Copeland, Edward, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cook, Michael J., Amesbury, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Coombs, Rolvin G., Amesbury, enlisted June 28, 1898; died John
  Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky, September 18,
  1898.


  Cowen, John E., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Craig, Robert A., Salem, enlisted July 2, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Crean, James, Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Davidson, William, Lowell, enlisted Company C, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company B,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Denoyelle, Joseph P. A., Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898;
  discharged for disability, November 10, 1898.


  Donovan, William, Amesbury, enlisted June 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability, January 4, 1899.


  Donoghue, John J., Lawrence, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dooling, Timothy, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Downer, Michael F., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Dufault, Noel, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Eaton, Oscar R., South Hampton, N. H., enlisted June 21, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  England, Walter H., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability, November 3, 1898.


  Emerson, George B., Peabody, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Feltham, Albert, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Reserve Ambulance Company, U. S. A., July 3, 1898; discharged
  March 13, 1899.


  Ferris, Samuel J., Amesbury, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Flanders, Frank W., Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Flanders, Carl L., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Foley, Michael H., South Framingham, enlisted Company E, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 16, 1898; transferred to Company B,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gelley, William H., Amesbury, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Gilmore, Walter A., Milford, enlisted Company M, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 17, 1898; transferred to Company
  B, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 6, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gowen, George L., Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gowen, Harry W., Amesbury, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Green, John F., Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, June 15, 1898; transferred to Company B, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, December 18, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Green, Stephen H., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hanson, Edward, Lowell, enlisted Company M, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company B, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, December 30, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Heenan, William, Jr., Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hessian, James, Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hinckley, Samuel A., Amesbury, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, December 11, 1898.


  Higgins, Henry, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  August 1, 1898; died John Blair Gibbs General Hospital,
  Lexington, Kentucky, September 24, 1898.


  Higgins, Thomas P., Amesbury, Quartermaster-Sergeant, enlisted
  April 28, 1898; discharged for disability, January 11, 1899.


  Hughes, Edward, Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hunt, G. Raymond, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Knight, George, Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lane, John W., Beverly, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Lamprey, Timothy O., Salisbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; died at
  Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia, June 13, 1898.


  Larduer, Robert E., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; discharged for disability, January 10, 1899.


  Larkin, John, Lowell, enlisted Sixth Massachusetts Infantry, June
  22, 1898; transferred from band Sixth Massachusetts Infantry
  to Company B, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 1, 1899;
  transferred to regimental band, March 22, 1899.


  Lefebore, Edmond, Salem, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Marth, William H., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Malenfant, Ludger, Amesbury, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McCarthy, John, Salem, enlisted July 2, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  McCarthy, Daniel, Peabody, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McCutcheon, James E., Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  McKay, John, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McMeniman Patrick, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Millerick, James H., Amesbury, enlisted June 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., October 22, 1898;
  deserted, January 17, 1899.


  Mudgett, William L., Haverhill, Musician, enlisted April 28,
  1898; transferred to band March 22, 1899.


  Mitchell, Charles R., Lawrence, enlisted May 5, 1898; transferred
  to band March 22, 1899.


  Murray, Adolph E., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Murray, Louis E., Amesbury, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Murphy, James, Peabody, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  O'Brien, Maurice F., Amesbury, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  O'Bryan, Stephen, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Oulette, John, Amesbury, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Page, Frank L., Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Parker, Charles W., Reading, enlisted Company A, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company B,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 2, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Porter, Samuel L., Amesbury, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order February 17, 1899.


  Pierce, Wallace A., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., October 22, 1898;
  discharged May 3, 1899.


  Patten, George, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; died at Amesbury, Mass., while on sick furlough,
  September 6, 1898.


  Pickering, Leon Q., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Quimby, Arthur, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Ramsdell, Peter F., Salem, enlisted July 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Richardson, Lenord J., Salem, enlisted July 2, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Roche, George F., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Scanlon, Jerry, Amesbury, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Stiles, George M., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability, January 11, 1899.


  Stickles, James P., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., October 22, 1898;
  discharged, November 27, 1899.


  Scott, John J., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged for
  disability, January 11, 1899.


  Sweet, Hayden E., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability, February 21, 1899.


  Stowe, Arthur W., Cambridge, enlisted Company E, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 20, 1898; transferred to Company B,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 13, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Sweeney, Thomas P., Salem, enlisted June 28, 1898; died at John
  Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky, October 20,
  1898.


  Tarbell, Harry A., Fitchburg, enlisted Company B, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 16, 1898; transferred to Company
  B, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 2, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Teed, Arthur M., Amesbury, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Tuxbury, George E., Amesbury, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Vincent, Joseph, Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Willey, Howard A., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  by order January 14, 1899.


  Wilson, Arthur J. H., Amesbury, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Wilson, George L., Roxbury, enlisted Company H, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company B,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Walsh, Patrick D., Amesbury, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Woodward, John, Amesbury, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.




_Company C, Marblehead_


  Pettingell, James M., Amesbury, Captain, January 18, 1899;
  mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company B.)


  Denning, Frank B., Marblehead, Second Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  Captain, May 11, 1898; resigned December 9, 1898.


  Smith, Frederic P., Dedham, Second Lieutenant, May 10, 1898;
  First Lieutenant, January 11, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Detached service as aide-de-camp Second Brigade, Third Division,
  First Army Corps, May 27 to June 10. Commanding Company I,
  October 2 to 5. Commanding Company C, by reason of seniority,
  October 6 to December 20. Battalion Adjutant December 20, 1898 to
  April 28, 1899.


  Wardwell, Linville H., Beverly, Sergeant Major, April 28, 1898;
  First Lieutenant, May 11, 1898; resigned December 13, 1898.

  Battalion Adjutant May 11 to November 4. Aide-de-camp Second
  Brigade, Third Division, First Army Corps, November 5 to 21.


  Whelpley, Edgar J., Salem, Second Lieutenant, January 22, 1899;
  mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company H.)


  Pierce, Cornelius, Marblehead, First Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Mahoney, John W., Marblehead, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Quartermaster-Sergeant, December 25, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Lent, Jesse G., Marblehead, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Osgood, Fred H., Marblehead, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Sandwich, James T., Marblehead, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; Sergeant July 12, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Imperial, Albert F., Marblehead, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; Sergeant, March 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  O'Brien, Daniel J., Salem, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Doe, Charles F., Marblehead, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Robbins, Frederick L., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  July 15, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Mitchell, Benjamin, Lynn, enlisted June 28, 1898; Corporal August
  1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Kelley, John W., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Ryan, Thomas P., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal, August
  1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Peach, Harry S., Marblehead, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal August 1, 1898; mustered out as Corporal, April 28, 1899.


  Bartol, Arthur W., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  October 22, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Taylor, William A., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, March 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Smith, Frank M., Marblehead, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Reddy, John A., Amesbury, enlisted May 10, 1898; Corporal, March
  1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  January, Samuel M., Lynn, enlisted June 28, 1898; Corporal March
  1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Campbell, James N., Haverhill, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Spurr, George G. Jr., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Artificer, November 20, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McDonald, Stephen, Marblehead, Wagoner, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Bagley, Thomas W. F., Haverhill, enlisted May 10, 1898;
  discharged for disability, October 4, 1898.


  Ballard, Harry C., Marblehead, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Ballard, Waldo P., Marblehead, Quartermaster-Sergeant, enlisted
  April 28, 1898; mustered out as private April 28, 1899.


  Bartol, Clarence L., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; died at
  Regimental Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia, May 29, 1898.


  Benson, Charles W., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; died on
  Hospital Ship "Missouri," off Cuba, March 15, 1899.


  Birmingham, Thomas J., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Boyden, Arthur C., Swampscott, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Broderick, Patrick, Jr., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Cahill, James J., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Cahoon, James A., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Carroll, William D., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Casey, Daniel M., Swampscott, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Chapman, Arthur, Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Chapman, Lewis H. A., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Coates, William W., Saco, Maine, enlisted June 24, 1898;
  discharged by order December 20, 1898.


  Collins, John C., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Connell, Harry, Swampscott, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cook, Charles E., Haverhill, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cook, Monroe E., Worcester, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Crane, Michael J., Salem, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Curwen, James H., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dailey, William F., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Dennis, William F., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Dixey, John G., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dixey, William F., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Doherty, Charles E., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Doherty, George V., Somerville, enlisted July 5, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Doliber, Ashton, Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Dryden, Dennis, Haverhill, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dugan, Daniel H., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Florence, Gerry G., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Florence, William H., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; died at
  John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky, October
  8, 1898.


  Freeman, Frank B., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898: mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Frost, Arthur D., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Frost, Frank I., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Gleason, William H., Marblehead, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; discharged for disability January 4, 1899.


  Goss, Joseph H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gosselin, Alfred W., Haverhill, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Granger, Samuel G., Swampscott, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Graves, Charles H., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Graves, Fred L., Marblehead, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hathaway, Stephen, Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hathorne, James F., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Henry, James F., Salem, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Henry, James J., Salem, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Huntington, George D., Amesbury, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Imbeault, Joseph, Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Kane, John J., Brockton, enlisted May 10, 1898; discharged for
  disability, January 6, 1899.


  Keegan, Charles J., Salem, enlisted May 10, 1898; discharged for
  disability, January 6, 1899.


  Kiely, William H., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Knowland, Fred B., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898;
  discharged February 6, 1899.


  Lahey, John J., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Love, Patrick W., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Lundergan, Edward J., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Lyons, Thomas P., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  McHugh, John J., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McKenna, Daniel F., Milford, enlisted Company M, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, April 24, 1898; appointed corporal;
  transferred to Company C, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January
  7, 1899; mustered out as private April 28, 1899.


  McNulty, Charles J., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Markey, Michael A., Salem, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Maley, Charles E., Haverhill, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Melanson, Leander, Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, April 24, 1898; transferred to Company
  C, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 7, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Mercier, Jules J., Haverhill, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Munroe, Archibald M., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Morse, Frank E., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; discharged
  for disability March 22, 1899.


  Nutting, John H., Wakefield, enlisted Company H, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 24, 1898; transferred to Company C,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 31, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  O'Brien, Timothy J., Haverhill, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Phalen, Martin M., Salem, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Phillips, Joseph, Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Punchard, J. Frank, Marblehead, Artificer, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out as private April 28, 1899.


  Rhoades, Thomas H., Jr., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Robbins, Charles S., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, August 1, 1898; deserted September 19, 1898.


  Ronan, Patrick, Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Rowe, Leonard, Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Savory, George H., Marblehead, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for disability February 15, 1899.


  Selman, Andrew M., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Shattuck, William G., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Sicard, Amand V., Lowell, enlisted Company H, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, April 24, 1898; transferred to Company C, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, December 31, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Smith, Frank O., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Snow, Charles C., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Stevens, George C., Swampscott, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Sweeney, Michael, Salem, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Symonds, Herbert N., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Talham, George F., Haverhill, enlisted May 10, 1898; deserted
  September 12, 1898.


  Thompson, William P., Swampscott, enlisted June 24, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Valley, Edward K., Marblehead, enlisted June 24, 1898: mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Weed, Wallace D., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  West, Walter S., Kingston, N. H., enlisted May 10, 1898:
  discharged for disability February 6, 1899.


  Whitney, Charles R., Hyde Park, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Widger, Charles H., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Woodfin, John S., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 16, 1898;
  discharged by order March 31, 1899.


  Worcester, William C., Lynn, enlisted June 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.




_Company D, Lynn_


  Hilliker, Charles T., Lynn, Captain, April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.

  Detached service, General Court Martial, November 19 to 25, and
  November 28 to December 6, and December 14 to 22.


  Cobey, Thomas J., Lynn, First Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Battalion Adjutant July 6 to August 29. Commanding Company B,
  November 15 to November 24. Battalion Adjutant November 25 to
  December 21.


  Young, William F., Lynn, Second Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  discharged for promotion, April 11, 1899. (See Company H.)

  Commanding Company B, December 21 to 27. Special duty
  Quartermaster's department, December 28, 1898 to February 2,
  1899. Provost Guard, Matanzas, Cuba, February 14 to April 3, 1899.


  Marston, William F., Gloucester, Second Lieutenant, April 12,
  1899; mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company G.)


  Gallagher, John B., Lynn, First Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Green, Byron S., Lynn, Quartermaster-Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Jeffers, Charles J., Lynn, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Williams, John F., Waltham, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Campbell, William M., Lynn, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Johnson, Charles J., Lynn, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Lafferty, John H., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Dorman, William, Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Crowley, Thomas C., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hamilton, James L., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Mulchay, James J., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Linehan, John L., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal, August
  1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Wiley, Frank E., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal, August
  1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Smith, Alpheus S., Revere, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  November 6, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Stephens, William J., Lynn, enlisted June 28, 1898; Corporal,
  November 6, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Swift, Charles Z., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898; Corporal,
  November 6, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Arrington, Arthur W., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; Corporal,
  February 6, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Heyden, Joseph T., Swampscott, enlisted June 25, 1898; Corporal
  (cook), January 10, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Aklund, Erick Y., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Musician, July
  1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Lee, John H., Lynn, enlisted May 9, 1898; Musician, March 22,
  1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Burt, Silas G., Lynn, Wagoner, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Stuart, Angus A., Dorchester, enlisted April 28, 1898; Artificer,
  January 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Allen, Llewellyn C., Dorchester, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Allen, William H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; discharged for disability, April 2, 1899.


  Bacon, Henry F., Worcester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Batchelder, Ezra N., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Bird, George W., Southbridge, enlisted Company K, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company D,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Burnham, Carroll V. H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Burnham, Herbert O., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; died at
  Regimental Hospital at Chickamauga Park, Georgia, May 28, 1898.


  Burke, Michael, Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Bourbeau, Frank A., Lynn, enlisted June 27, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Bradley, Alvin E., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Boucher, Alfred, Lynn, enlisted May 9, 1898; transferred to the
  band March 22, 1899.


  Canney, Fred H., Lynn, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Carroll, Stephen F., Lynn, enlisted June 29, 1898; discharged
  without honor, March 4, 1899.


  Childs, Louis H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged for
  disability, October 8, 1898.


  Clark, David H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cochrane, William A., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Colby, Henry S., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Connor, Laurence H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 4, 1898; discharged April 22,
  1899.


  Connors, Joseph H., Lynn, enlisted June 20, 1898; discharged for
  disability, October 8, 1898.


  Connors, Edward F., Lynn, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cook, George O., Dorchester, enlisted May 9, 1898; died at
  Dorchester, Massachusetts, while on sick furlough, September 22,
  1898.


  Cormack, Alexander R., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Crawford, Ernest E., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private April 28, 1899.


  Crosbie, Thomas R., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 8, 1898; discharged March 13,
  1899.


  Curran, Patrick, Lynn, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  de Forge, Joseph H. C., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Derby, Charles E., Lynn, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dewar, Daniel W., Dorchester, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Disbrow, Henry C., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Dottridge, John F., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; died at John
  Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky, September 6,
  1898.


  Face, Edward L., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 4, 1898; discharged March 26, 1899.


  Farrell, Lawrence J., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Farrington, William W., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Frazel, Jeremiah, Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company D,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gainley, George, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gainley, Louis N., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Garceau, Napoleon, Southbridge, enlisted Company K, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company D,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Griffin, William R., Lewiston, Pennsylvania, enlisted June 20,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Goodhue, Robert W., Peabody, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Grovestein, Joseph L., Cambridge, enlisted July 5, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hayden, Ellis L., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hinds, Jesse T., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hurd, William E., Worcester, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hurney, Patrick J., Marblehead, enlisted June 27, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hood, Thomas H., Portland, Maine, Artificer, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Johnson, Edgar J., Lynn, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to the band, February I, 1899.


  Kemmett, James E., Lynn, enlisted June 27, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Kennedy, George W., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Kent, Myron I., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Kelley, Michael J., Jr., Fitchburg, enlisted Company D, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company D,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 31, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Langlois, Adolphe, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lincoln, Fred W. C., Dorchester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Llewellyn, James, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Mansfield, George A., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Martin, James J., Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company D,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Martin, Walter F., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Moore, Albert, Somerville, enlisted July 5, 1898, deserted August
  27, 1898.


  Moore, John, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Mullen, Lawrence F., Salem, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McFadden, John, Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McGee, Timothy E., Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 20, 1898; transferred to Company D,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McKenna, Robert J., Lynn, enlisted June 27, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., October 4, 1898; discharged May 1, 1899.


  McLeod, Malcolm, Dorchester, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McPherson, Thaddeus J., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Nicholson, George W., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Nolan, Martin S., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Ober, Frank H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  O'Rourke, Thomas J., Fitchburg, enlisted Company D, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 16, 1898; transferred to Company D,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Pack, Frederick W., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Pastell, Walter, Lynn, enlisted May 5, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., November 17, 1898; discharged May 3,
  1899.


  Pichette, Joseph A. V., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Potter, Leslie E., Cambridge, Vermont, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, January 19, 1899.


  Rich, Walter F., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., October 4, 1898; discharged May 1, 1899.


  Schmidt, William A., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Shelley, Thomas H., Chatfield, Minnesota, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Shores, Robert M., Middleboro, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Simmons, E. Mitchell, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  by order September 19, 1898.


  Small, Laurie A., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., November 17, 1898. Never joined.
  Deserted November 17, 1898. Surrendered, April 28, 1899 and
  discharged without honor, May 8, 1899, charge of desertion not
  removed.


  Smith, Clifton E., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; deserted,
  October 21, 1898.


  Smith, George H., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Somes, Norman F., Cliftondale, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Spencer, Hamilton, Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Spinney, Claud C., Lynn, enlisted June 27, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Stickney, Horace I., Lynn, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to the band March 22, 1899.


  Stone, Harry M., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Stone, Louis, Manchester, N. H., enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Stewart, John A., Dorchester, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Stuart, Charles F., Lynn, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Symonds, Ormond S., Saugus, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Talbot, Charles G., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Vose, Frank H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Ward, Arthur G., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Watkins, John J., Amesbury, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Welck, William J., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; dishonorably
  discharged March 17, 1899.




_Company E, Beverly_


  Stopford, Frederick W., Beverly, Captain, April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Provost Guard, Matanzas, Cuba, March 16 to April 3, 1899.


  Farnham, Charles H., Beverly, First Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Special duty with engineering party, making camp at Lexington,
  Kentucky, August 16 to September 17. Command of engineering party
  at Americus, Georgia, October 26 to November 26. Regimental
  pioneer officer, December 4.


  DeSousa, Francisco A., Beverly, Second Lieutenant, April 28,
  1898; discharged for promotion, December 16, 1898. (See Company
  I.)

  In command of reconnoitering party locating rifle ranges and
  camps, October 4 to 14.


  Harvey, Loran J., Lynn, Second Lieutenant, December 16, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company I.)


  Standley, Edward A., Beverly, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  First Sergeant, October 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Colson, William L., Beverly, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Quartermaster-Sergeant, April 15, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Hathaway, Walter H., Beverly, First Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out as Sergeant April 28, 1899.


  Foster, Alonzo G., Beverly, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Fraser, Thomas J., Beverly, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Standley, Arthur L., Beverly, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, January 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Schade, Harry D., Beverly, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as Corporal, April 28, 1899.


  Robertson, Charles H., Beverly, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Stone, Warren E., Marblehead, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Clark, Frank B., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Smith, Roland K., Hamilton, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Williams, George S., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 20, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  White, Frank H., Lynn, enlisted June 23, 1898; Corporal (cook),
  December 6, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McRae, Harry, Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal, January
  1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Rice, Henry H., Pittsfield, enlisted May 10, 1898; Corporal,
  January 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Magner, James M., Beverly, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Lanctot, Joseph A., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  April 15, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Smith, Russell K., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  April 15, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Rowe, Oscar W., Haverhill, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Sweetman, William D., Beverly, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Washer, Carlos J., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; Artificer,
  October 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Clark, Charles A., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; Wagoner,
  June 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Anderson, Albert A., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Andrews, Wallace A., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Barnard, George E., Salem, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Barry, Thomas F., Peabody, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Batchelder, George D., Beverly, enlisted June 14, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Beeman, Iver C., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged by
  order, February 17, 1899.


  Beckford, Fred H., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Birmingham, Walter J., Salem, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Bray, Ferdinand W., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Brennan, Leslie A., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Brock, Arthur S., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Burke, Louis, Salem, enlisted June 23, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., October 22, 1898; discharged April 30,
  1899.


  Butman, Clarence P., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Butman, William E., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Campbell, John A., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Carlton, Harry R., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 1, 1898; discharged February
  13, 1899.


  Chapman, John C., Beverly, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Church, John P., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 1, 1898; discharged April 3, 1899.


  Collins, Roscoe J., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Conroy, Daniel A., Peabody, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Coughlin, Edward M., Webster, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Creamer, Benjamin F., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Cresoe, George H., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; dishonorably
  discharged, March 2, 1899.


  Cronin, John A., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dailey, Harry F., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dillon, James F., Peabody, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Doolen, Daniel J., Salem, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dow, Thomas W., Manchester, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dutra, Frank T., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Egan, William F., Salem, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Farrell, David E., Marblehead, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Fiske, Lewis W., Providence, R. I., enlisted June 14, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., February 19, 1899;
  discharged July 5, 1899.


  Fitzgerald, Thomas E., Marlboro, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Fleet, Roland H., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., November 15, 1898; discharged April
  9, 1899.


  Flint, Arthur L., Beverly, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hanson, Paul P., Essex, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Haskell, William R., Ipswich, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hazlett, Walter H., Hamilton, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Heath, Melvin A., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Herrick, Everett A., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hoogerzeil, William H., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Jellison, Frank L., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability January 6, 1899.


  Johnson, Adna B., Salem, enlisted June 23, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898; discharged January 13,
  1899.


  Jones, Warren F., Wenham, enlisted June 14, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Keenan, Hugh J., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Kenaley, James F., Peabody, enlisted June 23, 1898; discharged
  for disability February 9, 1899.


  Kimball, Kenneth E., Ipswich, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Kingsley, Frederick S., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Lane, Thomas P., Lynn, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Laraway, Ernest W., Haverhill, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  LeDuc, William H., Stoneham, enlisted Company H, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company E,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lee, Henry W., Beverly, enlisted June 14, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lilly, Walter A., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Little, William H., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  MacLeod, George I., Boston, enlisted Company H, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 15, 1898; transferred to Company E,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McLaughlin, John J., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Mack, Albert F., Beverly, enlisted May 10, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., October 22, 1898.


  Magner, David F., Beverly, Quartermaster-Sergeant, enlisted April
  28, 1898; mustered out as private April 28, 1899.


  Maurais, Wilfred A., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Meagher, James J., Webster, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Murphy, Michael J., Salem, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1898.


  Noble, Shirley C., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Norton, Charles E., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  O'Connell, John J., Lynn, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  O'Leary, James A., Salem, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.

  Palky, Phillipe, Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Paul, Herbert A., Lynn, enlisted June 14, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Pierce, Fred E., Beverly, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Prentiss, Harris B., Beverly, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Purcell, William J., Somerville, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Ralph, Charles, Ipswich, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Reed, John W., Beverly, enlisted June 15, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Roberts, James H., Salem, enlisted June 15, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Robertson, Alexander, Beverly, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, November 25, 1898; discharged for promotion, December
  16, 1898. (See Company F.)


  Roche, John H., Salem, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Russell, Norman F., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898; transferred back
  to Company E, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, November 7, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Ryan, Joseph, Peabody, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Simpson, John G., Beverly, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Skane, Richard A., Beverly, enlisted May 10, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 1, 1898; discharged February 10,
  1899.


  Stanley, Arthur, Beverly, enlisted June 16, 1898; discharged by
  order, March 21, 1899.


  Spaulding, Frank A., Lynn, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Sweetser, Frederic J., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to band, March 20, 1899.


  Tufts, George B., Lynn, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Waggott, William O., Beverly, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Wheeler, Frank B., Beverly, enlisted June 14, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  White, Edward A., Cambridge, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Williams, Ezra W., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Woodberry, Frank L., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Woodbury, Roland S., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.




_Company F, Haverhill_


  Dow, William C., Haverhill, Captain, April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.

  Commanding the Third Battalion, by reason of seniority, October 8
  to 29 and December 23, 1898 to March 23, 1899.


  Svanberg, Per Justis W., Amesbury, First Lieutenant, April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Commanding the company by reason of seniority, October 8 to 29
  and December 27, 1898 to March 25, 1899.


  Jewell, David E., Haverhill, Second Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  discharged for promotion, December 16, 1898. (See Company K.)

  Battalion Adjutant, September 19 to October 2.


  Robertson, Alexander, Beverly, Second Lieutenant, December 16,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company E.)


  Priest, William O., Haverhill, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  First Sergeant, September 8, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Sleeper, Harry E., Haverhill, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Quartermaster-Sergeant, September 8, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Hadley, George E., Haverhill, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Woods, Fred C., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; Sergeant, September 22,


  West, William J., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Sergeant,
  February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Leslie, Pearl A., Haverhill, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, February 11, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Morrison, Allen C., Haverhill, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Nason, George H., Haverhill, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Day, Roy M., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal, August
  1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Damon, Milton A., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Dyer, Bert M., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Lovejoy, Fred S., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Short, Harry H., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Jones, Frederick H., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Glover, Charles F., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  September 22, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Austin, Charles F., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Lambert, Simeon J., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  February 8, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Moore, Fred S., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  (cook), November 20, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Wentworth, Leslie C., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Artificer, February 8, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Brown, Alexander H., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Assistant Wagonmaster, July 15, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Barker, Charles O., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Bartlett, Herbert E., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Bartlett, John P., Salem, enlisted July 7, 1898; discharged for
  disability, January --, 1899.


  Bean, Arthur W., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Bond, Horace A., Haverhill, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Bisbee, Orlando A., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Brindley, Charles F., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Brindley, William H., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Brasseur, George D., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to the band March 20, 1899.


  Briggs, Arthur C., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Bouley, Edward F., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Caldwell, Henry W., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Channell, Louis N., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; died on
  board Hospital Ship "Missouri," March 3, 1899.


  Cooper, Charles N., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Colby, George W. I., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Cotter, Maurice, Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cook, Charles H., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Connelly, Edward A., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Crowell, Arthur C., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., June 29, 1898;
  discharged May 3, 1899.


  Delorie, Frank E., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Desmond, John A., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dufrense, Ramond, Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dorherty, John S., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Dunnells, Harold A., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Dubrey, Joseph, Concord, enlisted Company I, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, June 23, 1898; transferred to Company F, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, December 31, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Ford, Fred A., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Foren, James H., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Fuller, Erford C., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Finnegan, Patrick, Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Gilbert, Joseph A., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Glover, Clinton P., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for disability, September 10, 1898.


  Goodwin, Leberton W., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Godbout, Leon J., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gove, Ira S., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Green, Andrew W., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Greenlay, Joseph B., Haverhill, enlisted Corporal, April 28,
  1898; Musician, July 15, 1898; transferred to the band, March 20,
  1899.


  Hearin, Frank L., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Henckler, Otto, Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Henderson, George, Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hinkson, Harry F., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hayes, Joseph, Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Houle, Albert, Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hawkins, Herman, Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hill, George V., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Jones, John C., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Kershaw, John L., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lafree, Peter N., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Law, Edgie B., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lang, William T., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Lambert, Joseph A., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Laform, Louis, Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lyden, John J., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lafleur, John S., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Liberty, Joseph F., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Mase, Willard H., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Mills, William H., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Miller, Albert M., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Miner, Herbert W., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to the band March 20, 1899.


  McConihe, Harry C., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  McConihe, William P., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898;
  discharged for disability, October 8, 1898.


  Mahoney, Jeremiah, Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Mercier, Louis N., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Mack, Frank, Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Mudgett, Perley W., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for disability, December 31, 1898.


  Morrow, John, Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Nason, Alfred K., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Noonan, Thomas F., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Peavey, Harry M., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Patnod, Adolpheus J., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Rich, Harry W., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Roberts, Carl S., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Rowe, Harry E., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Sabin, Ernest E., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Sanborn, John R., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  September 22, 1898; discharged for promotion, February 1, 1899.
  (See N. C. O. staff.)


  Stockbridge, Ralph C., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Strafford, Thomas, Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Sullivan, Michael J., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Thomas, Fred, Haverhill, Quartermaster-Sergeant, enlisted April
  28, 1898; died at Sternberg Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia,
  September 6, 1898.


  Warren, Samuel M., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Walker, John G., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Webster, Edward C., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Webster, George P., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Wentworth, George, Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Wentworth, Harris M., Haverhill, Artificer, enlisted April 28,
  1898; discharged as private April 28, 1899.


  White, Merritt E., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., June 29, 1898;
  discharged July 4, 1899.


  Whittier, David F., Haverhill, First Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; discharged for promotion, September 7, 1898. (See Company
  K.)


  Winslow, George, Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Woodbury, George W., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  West, Edward A., Haverhill, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.




_Company G, Gloucester_


  Horton, Edward J., Gloucester, Captain, April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  McIsaac, Charles M., Gloucester, First Lieutenant, April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Acting Regimental Quartermaster, October 3 to 14. Battalion
  Adjutant, November 21. Assistant Quartermaster, December 26
  to January 23, 1899. Battalion Adjutant, January 23. Acting
  Regimental Adjutant, January 30 and March 11 and 12.


  Nutt, James C., Gloucester, Second Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  resigned December 27, 1898.


  Warner, Charles R., Lynn, Second Lieutenant, January 21, 1899;
  mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company I.)


  Thomas, William H., Gloucester, First Sergeant, enlisted April
  28, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Jacobs, Thomas W., Gloucester, enlisted April 29, 1898;
  Corporal, August 1, 1898; Sergeant, December 27, 1898;
  Quartermaster-Sergeant, same date; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Morris, Charles A., Gloucester, Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McDonald, Jerome, Jr., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, August 1, 1898; Sergeant, March 1, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McDonald, Hugh M., Gloucester, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Anderson, William S., Gloucester, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Wheeler, Willis E., Gloucester, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Parsons, Ernest D., Gloucester, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Blake, Charles C., Gloucester, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Rogers, Frank, Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Cunningham, Frederick W., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  MacDonald, Fred E., Gloucester, enlisted May 10, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Ehler, Ernest A., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 4, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hill, Rupert G., Charlestown, transferred from Company M, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, September 1, 1898; Corporal, September 1,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Somers, Samuel J., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898; Corporal,
  February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Day, William F., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898; Corporal
  February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Witham, Sidney, Gloucester, enlisted April 30, 1898; Corporal,
  March 29, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Burns, John M., Gloucester, Artificer, enlisted April 30, 1898;
  Corporal (cook), February 21, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Parker, John E., Gloucester, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Brady, Edward, Lawrence, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Eaton, Robert L., Rockport, enlisted June 20, 1898; Artificer,
  February 21, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Witham, Charles S., Gloucester, enlisted July 2, 1898; Wagoner,
  November 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Allen, Frank G., Rockport, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Baker, Charles, Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Blagdon, William, Gloucester, enlisted April 30, 1898; discharged
  by order March 10, 1899.


  Bradley, John, Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Brazier, Alfred H., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Brewer, William H., Lynn, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Brooks, William H., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Bonney, Ralph W., Fitchburg, enlisted Company B, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 22, 1898; transferred to Company G,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cahoon, William B., Gloucester, enlisted April 29, 1898; died at
  John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky, September
  30, 1898.


  Carney, John A., Gloucester, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Carpenter, Joseph H., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Casey, Edward L., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Clark, Walter H., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Coffey, George F., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Collins, John E., Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cottle, Henry, Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Cronin, Edmund T., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Cross, Alexander J., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Curley, William D., Gloucester, enlisted April 29, 1898; died at
  John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky, October
  10, 1898.


  David, Charles A., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, April 2, 1899.


  Day, Fred A., Gloucester, enlisted April 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dalton, Patrick J., Gloucester, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Davis, Harry C., Gloucester, enlisted April 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  DeVeau, Leroy E., Gloucester, enlisted June 30, 1898; transferred
  to the Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898; discharged May
  1, 1899.


  Dinn, John C., Rockport, enlisted April 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Doren, John M., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; died at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga
  Park, Georgia, August 4, 1898.


  Douglass, Leonard G., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Douglass, George A., Wakefield, enlisted Company H, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, July 2, 1898; transferred to Company G,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 13, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Drolet, Charles F., Rockport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to the band, March 20, 1899.


  Elwell, Zeno, Essex, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Ferguson, Alexander, Jr., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, February 24, 1899.


  Frost, George R., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability, November 2, 1898.


  Gauld, Archibald G., Gloucester, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Giles, Alfred B., Rockport, enlisted June 28, 1898; discharged by
  order, February 10, 1899.


  Gosby, Edward M., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 1, 1898;
  discharged, February 9, 1899.


  Hall, Elmer A., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hanson, Peter, South Framingham, enlisted Company E, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company G,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Herty, William H., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hilliard, John A., Somerville, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hickey, Patrick H., Southbridge, enlisted Company K, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company G,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 13, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Holloran, William H., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Horton, Myron O., Fitchburg, enlisted Company B, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company G,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hotchkiss, Bickford, Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Ingersoll, Edward T., Gloucester, enlisted June 30, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Irving, Alonzo L., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Irving, Robert T., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Jacobs, Charles F., Gloucester, enlisted April 30, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Kearsey, John J., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Kelly, Martin F., Manchester, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Lawson, George R., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Malonson, Joseph H., Gloucester, Quartermaster-Sergeant, enlisted
  April 28, 1898; discharged by order, December 25, 1898.


  Marshall, Antone F., Rockport, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, January 20, 1899.


  Marston, Edmund F., Gloucester, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Marston, William F., Gloucester, enlisted Sergeant, April 28,
  1898; discharged for promotion, April 11, 1899. (See Company D.)


  Martin, James S., Gloucester, enlisted April 29, 1898; discharged
  for disability, January 4, 1899.


  MacDonald, James A., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898;
  discharged by order, January 30, 1899.


  MacIsaac, James A., Chelsea, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Montgomery, Lewis, Gloucester, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Morey, George H., Gloucester, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Morris, Edward J., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Murray, Daniel W., Lynn, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Nutton, William H., Gloucester, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899. (This man was carried on muster-in roll as
  Mutton).


  O'Connor, Bartholomew F., Lynn, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Ott, Odd F., Washington Court House, Ohio, enlisted October 28,
  1898; discharged by order, March 14, 1899. (On detached service
  at First Army Corps Headquarters, as Musician.)


  Parker, Jesse, Rockport, enlisted May 10, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Parsons, Benjamin F., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for disability, October 7, 1898.


  Powers, Edward K., Gloucester, enlisted April 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Pichette, Frank, Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company G,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Price, Albert D., South Framingham, enlisted Company E, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company G,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Reardon, Timothy, Hudson, enlisted June 2, 1898; dishonorably
  discharged, March 4, 1899.


  Reno, Joseph, Southbridge, enlisted Company K, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company G,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Rich, Albert A., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Richardson, Herbert A., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Robinson, Frank H., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Rogers, John J., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  by reason of being a minor, January 16, 1899.


  Rowe, John W., Jr., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Saunders, Ernest, Gloucester, enlisted June 30, 1898; discharged
  by order, March 24, 1899.


  Smith, Charles W., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Smith, William S., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Spates, Arthur N., Gloucester, enlisted April 30, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Strangman, Herbert T., Gloucester, enlisted April 29, 1898;
  discharged for disability, September 30, 1898.


  Syms, George J., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Tarr, Albert C., Rockport, enlisted June 28, 1898; transferred to
  the Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898; discharged July 24,
  1899.


  Thomas, George F., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Thomas, Walter R., Gloucester, enlisted April 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Thomas, William H., Gloucester, Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; discharged by order, March 18, 1899.


  Tuck, George C., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Vivian, William H., Gloucester, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Walen, George F., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; died at
  John Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky, September
  19, 1898.


  Warren, Hughie A., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Watson, Melvin L., Freedom, N. H., enlisted May 10, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Wenneberg, John E., Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  White, Walter, Gloucester, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Williams, Abraham D., Gloucester, enlisted June 20, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Wilkins, George A., Gloucester, Wagoner, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private April 28, 1899.




_Company H, Salem_


  Reynolds, Augustus G., Salem, Second Lieutenant, May 10, 1898;
  First Lieutenant, August 15, 1898; Captain, April 12, 1899;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Regimental commissary, May 20. Detached service to Third
  Division, First Army Corps Hospital, as Acting Assistant
  Quartermaster and Acting Commissary Subsistence, July 12 to
  August 11. Commanding Company K, September 10 to 17. Detached
  service as Acting Assistant Quartermaster and Acting Commissary
  Subsistence, Third Division, First Army Corps Hospital, September
  17 to December 23. Special duty construction of hospitals, First
  Army Corps, November 4, 1898. Special duty in charge of repairs
  of Santa Ysabil Hospital, Matanzas, Cuba, February 28 to April 4.
  Commanded the company by reason of seniority, December 23, 1898
  to February 28, 1899 and from April 4 to 11.


  Peabody, Jacob C. R., Danvers, Captain, July 8, 1898; discharged
  to accept Captain's commission, Assistant Quartermaster, in
  quartermaster's department, U. S. V., April 11, 1899; resigned,
  May 17, 1899.

  Detached service as Aide-de-camp, General Ludlow's staff, October
  15, 1898 to April 11, 1899.


  Nichols, Walter P., Salem, Captain, April 28, 1898; resigned June
  26, 1898.


  Young, William F., Lynn, First Lieutenant, April 12, 1899;
  mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company D.)


  Jewett, George N., Salem, First Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  resigned August 11, 1898.


  Pineau, Thomas O. H., Salem, First Sergeant, enlisted April
  28, 1898; discharged for promotion, August 14, 1898; Second
  Lieutenant, August 15, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  In command of company by reason of seniority, September 27 to
  December 22, 1898 and March 1 to April 3, 1899.


  White, Ernest C., Salem, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898; First
  Sergeant, February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Prall, Ralph T., Cleveland, Ohio, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, September 1, 1898; Sergeant, February 1, 1899;
  Quartermaster-Sergeant, February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  David, Frank, Salem, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Fuller, John I., Danvers, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, September 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Aull, Samuel G., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; Corporal, August
  1, 1898; Sergeant, February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hamilton, Frank L., Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898; Sergeant,
  February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Carroll, James T., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  February 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Gunnison, Fred L., Salem, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Griffin, John C., Peabody, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Langmaid, Harry T., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; Corporal,
  October 24, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McCue, Frederick W., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  October 24, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  MacInnis, John W., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; Corporal,
  February 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Parker, Penuel A., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; Corporal,
  November 9, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Raymond, Henry E., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Rudderham, Howard C., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; Corporal,
  October 24, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Robinson, Frank W., Salem, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Semple, Frank, Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal, March
  1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Young, Ernest A., Milton, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Sweeney, Thomas L., Peabody, enlisted June 16, 1898; Corporal
  (cook) November 9, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McNeill, Jesse P., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; Musician,
  August 15, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Collins, John J., Salem, Artificer, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Adams, Charles H., Salem, enlisted June 27, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Ahern, Arthur J., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Anderson, John W., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Barrett, Jefferson F., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  by order, February 21, 1899.


  Batchelder, Charles E., Salem, enlisted, Sergeant, April 28,
  1898; discharged for disability, January 10, 1899.


  Bixby, William A., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Brine, Charles H., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Brine, Lewis R., Winchester, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  by order, October 28, 1898.


  Burdett, Harold C., Hingham, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; discharged by order, October 18, 1898.


  Campbell, Frederick H., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Carbone, Anthony, Boston, enlisted Company M, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company H, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, January 12, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Casey, Michael W., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Caverly, Arthur S., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Claxton, James, Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; discharged by
  order, February 25, 1899.


  Cochrane, Percy W., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Colleary, Michael E., Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 16, 1898; transferred to Company H,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 27, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Coombs, David W., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Copeland, Henry P., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cotter, Garrett E., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cowern, Walter H., Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company H,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 27, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Curtin, John, Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  deComana, Mihran H. H., Boston, enlisted June 16, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., November 4, 1898;
  discharged April 20, 1899.


  Deasy, Henry A., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; died while on
  sick furlough at Pittsfield, N. H., September 3, 1898.


  Dickey, Arthur L., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dickey, Asa R., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Demerritt, Elwood, Boston, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dennis, Ellis L., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898; discharged April 17,
  1899.


  Dow, Charles H., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dow, Clarence G., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dow, Walter E., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Ferguson, Frank E., Lynn, Quartermaster-Sergeant, enlisted April
  28, 1898; discharged for disability, January 17, 1899.


  Finney, Harry W., Medford, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; discharged by order, September 11, 1898.


  Fitzgerald, John J., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Foley, James J., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Garrett, Thomas, Jr., Staten Island, New York, enlisted April 28,
  1898; discharged by order, September 10, 1898.


  Garrity, Thomas A., Lowell, enlisted Company G, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company H,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Goldthwaite, William B., Salem, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Graves, William W., Salem, enlisted July 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gray, John C., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Hawkins, Benjamin F., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Heffernan, Charles J., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Heffernan, Patrick J., Haverhill, Musician, enlisted April 28,
  1898; transferred to band, March 20, 1899.


  Henneberry, Richard J., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; discharged
  by order, February 1, 1899.


  Hoberg, Frank A., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Howe, Everett C., Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company H,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 7, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  James, Daniel E., Salem, enlisted June 23, 1898; discharged by
  order, February 1, 1899.


  Kane, Thomas, Salem, enlisted June 27, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Kelly, William P., Salem, enlisted June 27, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  King, James H., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Kirby, Edward J., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lee, Arthur L., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged for
  disability January 10, 1899.


  Lovett, George F., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McLaughlin, Frank, Salem, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, February 21, 1899.


  Maak, George A., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Mallard, Herbert F., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 1, 1898; discharged February
  17, 1899.


  Milliken, Frank S., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Mitchell, William W., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Moore, Cornelius, Salem, enlisted July 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Murphy, Michael W., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Murray, Ernest, Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Murray, John S., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Nichols, John H., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; died at John Blair Gibbs General Hospital,
  Lexington, Kentucky, September 17, 1898.


  Norwood, Herbert O., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  O'Connell, Thomas H., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Ordway, Gardner E., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Osborn, John F., Boston, transferred from the band to Company H,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, February 4, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Parsons, Arthur W., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Parsons, Henry G., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 1, 1898; discharged April 15,
  1899.


  Pearson, Fred E., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Perkins, Edwin M., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Phillips, Herbert N., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Pollock, George F., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Raymond, Henry E., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Ready, Thomas H., Ipswich, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Reagan, John J., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Ricker, James E., Salem, Wagoner, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for disability January 10, 1899.


  Ring, James, Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Rogers, Charles W., Beverly, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Ruggles, Harry C., Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 15, 1898; transferred to Company H,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Ryan, George A., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Schwartz, Ardeen, Marlboro, enlisted Company F, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company H,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 27, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Silver, Fayette O., Boston, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability January 10, 1899.


  Smith, Nathaniel A., Newton, enlisted May 5, 1898; discharged for
  disability October 12, 1898.


  Staten, Fred N., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Sylvester, Robert G., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Tansey, Patrick I., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Thurston, Charles W., Cambridge, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Turner, Harry A., Boston, enlisted Company H, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company H, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, December 29, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Upton, Thomas A., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Vaughn, Alfred W. Keene, N. H., enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Verry, Frank J., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Wardwell, Henry F., Salem, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, November 4, 1898.


  Whelpley, Edgar J., Salem, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  First Sergeant, August 23, 1898; discharged for promotion,
  January 23, 1899. (See Company C.)


  White, James H., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Whitford, Robert A., Waltham, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898;
  discharged January 13, 1899.


  Wright, George S., Salem, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.




_Company I, Lynn_


  Williams, John E., Lynn, Captain, April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Downey, Francis H., Lynn, First Lieutenant, April 28, 1898; died
  at St. Joseph's Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky, October 24, 1898.

  Special duty as Regimental Commissary, July 15, 1898.


  DeSousa, Francisco A., Beverly, First Lieutenant, December 16,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company E.)

  Special duty with Company B, January 15 to February 9. Special
  duty as Quartermaster, Division Hospital, Matanzas, Cuba, March
  13 to April 3, 1899.


  Perry, William H., Lynn, Second Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Atwood, Ernest C., Lynn, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898; First
  Sergeant, January 21, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Connell, Walter T., Lynn, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Purdy, Fred G., Lynn, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Downey, Lewis A., Lynn, enlisted June 20, 1898; Corporal, August
  1, 1898; Sergeant, September 19, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Goodwin, Fred W., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Paris, Alphonse L., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Thomas, Leon P., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Newhall, Charles H., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Gillis, Lib. V., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal, August
  1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Williamson, Andrew, Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Dolan, Charles P., Lynn, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as Corporal, April 28, 1899.


  Cutting, Francis E., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; Corporal,
  November 25, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Besse, Walter M., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  November 25, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Anderson, William J., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  November 25, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McGuire, James M., Lynn, enlisted May 5, 1898; Corporal, November
  25, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Roby, Junius V., Lynn, enlisted May 5, 1898; Corporal, November
  25, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McCarty, John M., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hogan, Wimburn L., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; Corporal,
  February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Ward, John H., Lowell, enlisted Company G, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, June 28, 1898; transferred to Company I, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, December 27, 1898; Corporal (cook), March
  19, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Schier, John A., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Musician,
  November 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Condon, Thomas J., Lynn, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Cann, Ernest L., Lynn, enlisted May 5, 1898; Artificer, January
  1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Wood, Coleman, Lynn, enlisted, April 28, 1898; Wagoner, September
  1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Barber, John F., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Bailey, Charles E. B., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Barnes, Frank H., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Bessom, Edward F., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Bolser, Samuel, Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; discharged for
  disability, January 7, 1899.


  Bunker, Charles T., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Carlton, Samuel, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Casey, Thomas J., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Collins, Edward F., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Condon, Daniel A., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred to
  the Hospital Corps, U. S. A., June 29, 1898; discharged, March
  16, 1899.


  Condon, James F., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cunniff, James E., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Daley, Charles J., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dauphinee, Thomas M., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  by order, February 11, 1899.


  Demers, Peter, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Dennehy, Albert M., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dolan, William H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dow, Charles F., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Driscoll, Daniel H., Lynn, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Eaton, George W., Lynn, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Finlaison, Walter G., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Fitzgerald, James F., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Foisy, Joseph M., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Fitzgerald, James, Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Ford, Charles S., Somerville, enlisted July 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  French, William W., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gallagher, Owen J., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gargan, Patrick, Lynn, enlisted June 28, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Gilmour, Philip D., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Genery, Timothy J., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  George, Harry J., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gibbons, Andrew P., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Gowan, Howard E., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898; discharged, May 12,
  1899.


  Harvey, Loran J., Lynn, First Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for promotion, December 15, 1898. (See Company E.)


  Haselton, Granville, Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hastings, Fred D., Lowell, enlisted Company C, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 22, 1898; transferred to Company I,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 27, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hayes, Michael J., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; died at Third
  Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia, September 15, 1898.


  Heffernan, John F., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Henneberry, Thomas, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hill, Winfred S., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hinckley, Frank A., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; died at Third
  Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia, August 2, 1898.


  Kelly, John P., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Kingsley, Charles G., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Knox, George H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lambert, George W., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lane, Elmer C., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Lewis, Michael F., Lynn, Wagoner, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, March 23, 1899.


  Looney, John T., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Linehan, John J., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Loftus, Patrick, Lynn, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Macey, George T., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Manson, James A., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McCoy, Frank H., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  McDermott, James H., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McHugh, Patrick, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McIntire, Albert S., Lynn, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McKerness, George, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McKenna, James M., Lynn, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McRay, Keneth, Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Morse, Fred B., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged by
  order, January 19, 1899.


  Murray, Michael J., Lowell, enlisted Company G, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 22, 1898; transferred to Company I,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 27, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Murphy, Lawrence H., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Muse, Daniel, Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Neal, Walter B., Lynn, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Nolan, John J., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Norton, Lewis W., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Nute, George L., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Perron, Albert J., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Pocket, Joseph, Lynn, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898; died at
  Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia, August 26,
  1898.


  Quinn, Frank J., Lynn, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Rodgers, Daniel A., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Rodrick, Albert F., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., June 29, 1898;
  discharged, November 28, 1898.


  Ryan, Patrick D., Somerville, enlisted July 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Scott, J. Chester, Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Smith, John P., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged by
  order, August 2, 1898.


  Smith, Ora W., Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Snow, Frank G., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; discharged January
  13, 1899.


  Stevens, George H., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; deserted,
  November 9, 1898.


  Stewart, Thomas B., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Sullivan, John E., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; Corporal, August
  1, 1898; mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Taylor, Edward P., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred to
  the band, March 20, 1899.


  Thompson, Walter D., Lynn, enlisted June 22, 1898; died at Third
  Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia, August 7, 1898.


  Waltham, Ernest, Lowell, enlisted Company G, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company I, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, January 27, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Warner, Charles R., Lynn, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, September 19, 1898; First Sergeant, December 16, 1898;
  discharged for promotion, January 20, 1899. (See Company G.)


  Weaver, Harvey F., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Wessel, Charles A., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  White, Albert B., Lynn, Artificer, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order as private, March 15, 1899.


  Wood, Manley E., Lynn, enlisted April 28, 1898; Musician July 1,
  1898; discharged February 10, 1899.


  Woods, Frank, Lynn, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Young, Harold L., Lowell, enlisted Company G, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, May 13, 1898; transferred to Company I, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, December 27, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.




_Company K, Danvers_


  Chase, A. Preston, Danvers, Captain, April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.

  Detailed General Court Martial June 8 to July 11; December 11 to
  21, 1898; January 7 to --. Detailed as Judge Advocate, March 8.
  Summary Court Officer. December 7 to 17; 18 to 26.


  French, Henry W., Danvers, First Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  resigned, September 1, 1898.

  On recruiting service, June 11 to July 20, 1898.


  Bond, Stephen N., Boston, Second Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  First Lieutenant, September 15, 1898; resigned October 25, 1898.


  Jewell, David E., Haverhill, First Lieutenant, December 16, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company F.)

  Acting Regimental Adjutant, December 16 to 18. Battalion
  Adjutant, December 22. Acting Regimental Adjutant, February 25
  and 26. General Court Martial, January 17.


  Whittier, David F., Haverhill, Second Lieutenant, September 17,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  General Court Martial, March 8, 1899.


  Cook, Melvin J. G., Danvers, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  First Sergeant, January 22, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Collins, John J., Topsfield, Quartermaster-Sergeant, enlisted
  April 28, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Martin, James H., Middleton, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Curtis, Oscar L., Danvers, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, November 20, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Wrest, James, Danvers, enlisted June 30, 1898; Corporal, August
  1, 1898; Sergeant, December 29, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Folsom, Fred B., Peabody, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, February 11, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Dow, Eugene M., Topsfield, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Van Iderstein, Harry, Boxford, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Earley, Willoughby P., Middleton, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, September 2, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Smiley, Bertrand C., Peabody, enlisted June 17, 1898; Corporal,
  September 2, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Robblee, Minot P., Danvers, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as Corporal, April 28, 1899.


  Scott, Albert J., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  January 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Connolly, Thomas, Danvers, enlisted May 5, 1898; Corporal,
  January 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Jacques, Alphonse, Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  January 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  O'Hara, John J., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  January 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Orne, Edward L., Beverly, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Goodale, Harry J., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  April 3, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Smith, George W. C., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, April 3, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Potter, Charles H., Topsfield, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  (cook), November 18, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Mead, John J., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out as
  Musician, April 28, 1899.


  Gorman, James, Melrose, enlisted June 16, 1898; Artificer,
  November 10, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Sullivan, John B., Danvers, Wagoner, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Adams, William F., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; deserted,
  January 5, 1899.


  Barrett, Harold D., Roslindale, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Berry, Charles H., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Best, George A., Lynn, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Blodgett, Walter A., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898, mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Buckley, Dennis, Haverhill, enlisted June 17, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cahill, John F., Danvers, enlisted June 17, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Calley, Samuel, Salem, enlisted June 17, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898; discharged, May 10,
  1899.


  Campbell, George R., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Carey, John J., Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Carey, Thomas, Danvers, enlisted June 17, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Chase, Benjamin W., Danvers, First Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; discharged by order, as private, February 10, 1899.


  Chisholm, Joseph W., Peabody, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Clement, Eugene C., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for disability, October 10, 1898.


  Collins, Peter F., Salem, enlisted June 18, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Connors, Maurice, Danvers, enlisted June 17, 1898; discharged for
  disability, October 7, 1898.


  Crosby, Joseph B., Danvers, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Curtis, Edward A., Stowe, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Derby, Arthur P., Danvers, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order as private, January 25, 1899.


  Donohue, William, Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Doyle, Thomas H., Ipswich, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Duffy, Thomas F., Danvers, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Fardy, Benard F., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Fogarty, James J., Peabody, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Fox, Fred J., Lowell, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for disability, October 21, 1898.


  Flemming, William H., Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; dishonorably
  discharged, February 25, 1899.


  Floyd, Charles F., Middleton, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Funke, Arthur E., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Griffin, Ernest J., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Haddock, Leslie B., Haverhill, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, March 11, 1899.


  Hafey, James H., Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Harrigan, John, Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Harris, Allen J., Melrose, enlisted June 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hatstatt, Ernest F., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898;
  discharged April 20, 1899.


  Dowd, Thomas E., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hobbs, Spencer S., Danvers, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  died at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia,
  August 19, 1898.


  Howe, Samuel A., Topsfield, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Howell, James A., Danvers, enlisted June 17, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Howlett, Stephen F., Danvers, enlisted June 17, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Jackman, James W., Topsfield, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; Sergeant, August 18, 1898; First Sergeant, August
  18, 1898; discharged for promotion, January 22, 1899. (See
  Company B.)


  Jackson, Isaac B., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged for
  disability, January 4, 1899.


  Jacques, Arthur H., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Kelley, Jeremiah J., Haverhill, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Knight, Charles A., Salem, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Lebel, Octave, Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Lee, James J., Charlestown, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Reserve Ambulance Company, First Army Corps, July 1, 1898;
  discharged May 4, 1899.


  Little, Frank W., Danvers, Artificer, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Lovelace, Clifford E., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Mack, Daniel, Somerville, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Maguire, John J., Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Mahoney, Jeremiah J., Milford, enlisted Company M, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company K,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 12, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Manning, John H., Danvers, enlisted June 17, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Marshall, John R. G., Somerville, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Marshall, William H., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, January 25, 1899.


  Marston, Daniel W., Danvers, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Martin, John J., Milford, enlisted Company M, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company K, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, January 7, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Meskill, Thomas H., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  McFarland, Frank W., Beverly, enlisted May 5, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  McGovern, Charles, Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  by order, January 11, 1899.


  McGrath, David, Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; discharged for
  disability, October 22, 1898.


  McGrath, Patrick, Danvers, enlisted June 18, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McGuigan, James A., Danvers, enlisted June 17, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McLean, John A., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Nimblett, Joseph A., Danvers, enlisted June 17, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Nolan, John T., Lawrence, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  O'Hare, Henry, Salem, enlisted June 18, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  O'Neil, John J., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Page, Louis, Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Parker, Charles J., Newburyport, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Patterson, Frederick C., Boston, enlisted Company 11, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company K,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 7, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Perry, Charles H., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Peters, Edwards W. A., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, February 9, 1899.


  Peterson, Levi S., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Rabbitt, Michael C., Boston, enlisted Company H, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company K,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 7, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Reedy, Edward F., Ipswich, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Reynolds, James W., Danvers, enlisted June 17, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Richardson, William W., Middleton, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Robbins, Harry, Somerville, enlisted May 5, 1898; transferred
  to Reserve Ambulance Company, First Army Corps, July 1, 1898;
  discharged March 13, 1899.


  Rooney, John F., Danvers, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Saul, John H., Salem, enlisted July 5, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Seaward, Ralph E., Haverhill, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Segal, Isaac, Salem, enlisted June 17, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Shallow, Patrick, Salem, enlisted June 30, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Smith, Martin P., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Stringer, Edward, Peabody, enlisted July 6, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Strout, Fred E., Peabody, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Sullivan, John F., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Taylor, Harold E., Topsfield, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Terry, James P., Somerville, enlisted May 5, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Watson, Thomas F., Danvers, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.




_Company L, Lawrence_


  Forbes, James Lawrence, Captain, April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Craig, James H., Boston, Second Lieutenant, May 2, 1898; First
  Lieutenant, May 11, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Commanding company by reason of seniority October 15 to December
  3. Regimental Inspector Rifle Practice, December 21, 1898, to
  March 31, 1899. Provost Guard, Fort San Severino, Matanzas, Cuba,
  January 15 to February 1.


  Sherman, Roland H., Lawrence, Second Lieutenant, April 28, 1898;
  resigned August 18, 1898.

  Aide-de-camp, Second Brigade, Third Division, First Army Corps,
  June 10 to August 18.


  Larrivee, Eugene, Lawrence, First Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; discharged for promotion, September 15, 1898; Second
  Lieutenant, September 16, 1898; resigned January 10, 1899.


  Clendenin, William H, Somerville, Second Lieutenant, February 4,
  1899; mustered out April 28, 1899. (See Company M.)


  Hepworth, Joseph, Lawrence, Quartermaster-Sergeant, enlisted
  April 28, 1898; First Sergeant, September 1, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Fish, Albert C., Lawrence, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, September 21, 1898; Quartermaster-Sergeant, September
  21, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Shea, John F., Lawrence, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McNiff, William, Lawrence, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Halloran, Dennis A., Lawrence, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, December 30, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Armitage, George A., Lawrence, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, December 30, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Haggerty, Michael J., Lawrence, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McRobbie, John D., North Andover, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Connors, James E., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Connors, Charles T., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Quealy, Lot W., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Buckley, Frank S., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Connors, John T., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Farr, Edward, Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal, August
  1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Henderson, John, Andover, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  September 21, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Callaghan, John, Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  November 7, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Connors, James F., North Andover, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Corporal, December 30, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Houston, John A., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  December 30, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Nelligan, Michael F., Lawrence, Musician, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Provost, Joseph A., Lawrence, Artificer, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Fish, John K., North Andover, Wagoner, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Henderson, George M., Andover, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  (cook), October 17, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Anderson, John S., North Andover, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Benoit, Eugene O., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Bliss, William F., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Boyle, Michael F., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  by reason of being a minor, June 24, 1898.


  Brennan, Patrick J., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Brown, Ralph S., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Buchan, Raymond L., Andover, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Buckman, Leroy M., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Caffrey, James T., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Cahill, Dennis, Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cain, Hugh H., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Callahan, William H., Lawrence, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Carpenter, John A., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Casey, Martin F., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cody, Nelson, Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Collopy, Michael H., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Crowley, John H., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cunningham, John A., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Daley, William J., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Dillon, Walter E., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898; discharged April 30,
  1899.


  Doherty, John J., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Donnelly, Edward V., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Donohue, James W., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Dowd, William, Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Dunn, Harvey A., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; died at Third
  Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia, July 18, 1898.


  Egan, John J., Lawrence, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Entwistle, William, Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Evans, Mark, Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Farr, Samuel, Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Flagg, George W., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Gague, Lyndon A., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 1, 1898; discharged April 25,
  1899.


  Greenlaw, Elmer E., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Griffin, Michael F., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Hanson, John F., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; died at John
  Blair Gibbs General Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky, September 22,
  1898.


  Haycock, Albert T., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  by reason of being a minor, June 12, 1898.


  Heald, Herbert L., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hewitt, Thomas J., Lawrence, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, September 1, 1898; mustered out as private, April 28,
  1899.


  Hurley, Joseph A., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Kant, Patrick, Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Keefe, James, Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Keilig, Charles E., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Kelly, John D., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Kelly, Patrick, Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Leary, James, Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; transferred to
  Hospital Corps, U. S. A., August 9, 1898; discharged April 20,
  1899.


  Lehmann, Rudolph, Lawrence, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Mahoney, Denis W., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Matthews, Edward W., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  McDonald, Thomas M., Lawrence, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McDonald, James P., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  McKenny, Benjamin H., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, February 6, 1899.


  Mice, George A., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Moody, John W., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; discharged for
  disability, January 4, 1899.


  Moran, Joseph F., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Morgan, Charles H., Lawrence, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Murtha, Thomas H., Southbridge, enlisted Company K, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company L,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 16, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Myers, Robert M., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  O'Brien, James W., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  O'Donnell, Patrick, Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Pallister, Arthur F., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Palmer, George H., Lawrence, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Parke, Frank G., Lowell, enlisted Company C, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, June 22, 1898; transferred to Company L, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, December 16, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Phillips, William N., Lawrence, Musician, enlisted April 28,
  1898; transferred to the band, March 20, 1899.


  Pigott, David A., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Pottle, Herbert E., Lawrence, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Powers, John A., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Raidy, John A., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Ray, James F., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Regan, John J., North Andover, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Richard, Joseph E., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; deserted
  August 15, 1898.


  Rondeau, Louis N., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Sawyer, Charles F., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Scott, John J., Salem, enlisted July 6, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Scott, Walter R., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Sheridan, James E., Lawrence, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Smart, William H., Haverhill, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Smith, John C., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Sweet, Arthur D., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., July 1, 1898; discharged April 17,
  1899.


  Sweet, Irving L., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Sullivan, James J., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Taylor, Alfred E., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; discharged
  for disability, October 22, 1898.


  Vatter, Arthur L., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Walker, George H., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Welch, Jeremiah R., Lawrence, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Welch, John, Salem, enlisted July 6, 1898; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Westervelt, Raymond S., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Whittaker, James H., Lawrence, enlisted June 25, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Wilkinson, Hartley, Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Williamson, Donald R., Lowell, enlisted Company C, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 22, 1898; transferred to Company L,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, December 24, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Winslow, Arthur M., Lawrence, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.




_Company M, Somerville_


  Whitten, Herbert W., Cambridge, Captain, April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.

  On recruiting duty June 11 to July 20. Commanded Second Battalion
  by reason of seniority September 17 to October 17. Assistant
  Provost Marshal, District of Matanzas, Cuba, January 24. Summary
  court, District of Matanzas, Cuba, February 1, 1899.


  Canfield, George I., Somerville, First Lieutenant, April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Acting Quartermaster of regiment May 20, to August 22. Provost
  guard at Santa Christina barracks, January 24 to April 3, 1899.


  Pierce, Frederick W., Somerville, Second Lieutenant, April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.

  Regimental Inspector Rifle Practice, November 27 to December
  27. Provost guard duty, January 24 to April 3. On General Court
  Martial, February 4 to April 1, 1899.


  Wiley, Joseph E., Somerville, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  First Sergeant, November 15, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Kelsey, James H., Boston, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; Quartermaster Sergeant, February 1, 1899;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Kenny, John, Somerville, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Clement, Herman J., Somerville, Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hanaford, Louis L., Somerville, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; Sergeant, September 17, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Briggs, Arthur W., Somerville, Corporal, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Sergeant, February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Tibbetts, George W., Somerville, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Gilson, Valentine E., Somerville, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Gilson, Howard A., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  June 8, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McDonald, Neil, Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Kenny, William, Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Ulm, Albert A., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Gerry, Charles A., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  August 1, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Gammon, Eugene H., Somerville, enlisted June 20, 1898; Corporal,
  September 17, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Rowe, James E., Chelsea, enlisted June 20, 1898; Corporal,
  November 14, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McLean, Daniel A., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Durno, William J., Cambridge, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal,
  February 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Grace, James W., Somerville, enlisted June 20, 1898; Corporal,
  February 5, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Webber, Leon S., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; Corporal
  (cook), December 6, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Brobick, John L., Cambridge, enlisted June 23, 1898; Musician,
  March 20, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Ahearn, Frank, Pawtucket, R. I., enlisted April 28, 1898;
  Musician, March 1, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McKay, Thomas O., Somerville, enlisted June 20, 1898; Artificer,
  December 11, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Smith, Norman H., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; Wagoner,
  September 25, 1898; mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Anderson, Joseph M., Somerville, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Apel, Daniel C., Cambridge, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Beck, Everett W., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Berry, William F., Greenwood, Musician, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  transferred to the band as Band-Sergeant, March 1, 1899.


  Bingham, Henry S., Somerville, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Bodge, George H., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Brown, William H., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Burgess, Charles E., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Campbell, Joseph, Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability, January 5, 1899.


  Campbell, William C., Somerville, enlisted June 23, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Carty, John J., Somerville, Wagoner, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged as private, April 28, 1899.


  Caswell, Charles E., Medford, First Sergeant, enlisted April 28,
  1898; discharged for disability as private, January 19, 1899.


  Clark, Hiram D., Somerville, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for disability, January 5, 1899.


  Clendenin, William H., Somerville, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; discharged for promotion, February 2, 1899. (See Company L.)


  Colbath, Thomas B. M., Somerville, enlisted June 20, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Collupy, Carroll A., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Collupy, Everett H., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Cowan, John W., East Boston, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Cox, Francis H., Somerville, enlisted May 9, 1898; transferred
  to Hospital Corps, U. S. A., June 29, 1898; discharged April 17,
  1899.


  Crowley, Herbert L., North Cambridge, enlisted May 8, 1898;
  transferred to the band, March 20, 1899.


  Cummings, John H., West Somerville, enlisted May 9, 1898;
  transferred to the band, March 20, 1899.


  Davis, Winfred D., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Donohue, James A., Lowell, enlisted Company M, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 24, 1898; transferred to Company
  M, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 7, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Doten, Chester G., Somerville, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Dowdell, Millard F., Charlestown, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Dowling, Fred E., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Drady, Archie J., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Draper, Frank E., Somerville, Sergeant, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  died at Third Division Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia,
  September 2, 1898.


  Dyer, Edward J., Cambridge, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Fealey, Thomas H., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, December 22, 1898.


  Freeborn, Frank O., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Gallagher, William H., Somerville, enlisted June 21, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Gilson, Claude U., Wellesley Hills, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Givan, Charles F., Charlestown, enlisted June 20, 1898;
  transferred to the band, March 20, 1899.


  Goette, Albert H., Cambridgeport, enlisted June 29, 1898;
  transferred to the band, March 20, 1899.


  Goodrich, Clarence E., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Graves, Frank H., Somerville, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Gray, Herman L., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Greenwood, Edwin E., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Hardcastle, William J., Boston, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Halloran, John J., Lowell, enlisted Company C, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 22, 1898; transferred to Company
  M, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 9, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hill, Rupert G., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; Wagoner,
  May 26, 1898; transferred to Company G, Eighth Massachusetts
  Infantry, September 11, 1898.


  Holland, John P., Somerville, enlisted June 21, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Howe, Frank G., Lowell, enlisted in Company G, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 22, 1898; transferred to Company
  M, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 9, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Hunt, Ernest W., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; deserted,
  July 6, 1898.


  Hunter, Walter, Medford, enlisted June 22, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  James, Charles T., Allston, enlisted April 28, 1898; transferred
  to the band, March 20, 1899.


  Keville, William J., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, November 14, 1898.


  Knox, Charles W., Somerville, enlisted June 21, 1898; discharged
  for disability, January 5, 1899.


  Leighton, Albro B., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Marston, Benjamin F., Somerville, enlisted June 20, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Maynard, Erville H., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, January 18, 1899.


  McBarron, James H., Boston, enlisted May 5, 1898; transferred to
  the band, March 20, 1899.


  McCann, Eugene F., Lowell, enlisted Company G, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, June 24, 1898; transferred to Company
  M, Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 7, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  McDonald, Charles E., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  McInnes, Daniel H., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for disability, March 21, 1899.


  Miers, Walter B., Somerville, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Monroe, Frank J., Lowell, enlisted Company G, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company M. Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, January 7, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Morgan, Albion B., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Moulton, Edmund A., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Murry, John P., Allston, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Nevins, Joseph H., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Oliver, Arthur R., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged for disability, January 5, 1899.


  Odom, John S., Quincy, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered out April
  28, 1899.


  Paine, Melvin P., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Parkhurst, Charles W., Cambridge, enlisted June 21, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Penney, George S., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Plunkett, Richard A., Everett, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Porter, Wilfred H., Americus, Georgia, enrolled in the band,
  January 3, 1899; transferred to Company M, Eighth Massachusetts
  Infantry, January 19, 1899; mustered out April 28, 1899. Previous
  service: Enlisted as private in Battery L, First Massachusetts
  Heavy Artillery, May 9, 1898; mustered out November 14, 1898.


  Rebello, William P., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Rice, Harry E., Cambridge, enlisted April 28, 1898; discharged
  for disability, October 14, 1898.


  Richardson, William A., Cambridge, enlisted June 21, 1898;
  mustered out April 28, 1899.


  Riley, Charles A., Cambridge, enlisted June 20, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Ring, Arthur W., Cambridge, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Robertson, William J., South Boston, enlisted July 5, 1898;
  discharged for disability, February 9, 1899.


  Robinson, Clarence A., Boston, enlisted June 26, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Sanborn, Lyman H., Somerville, enlisted June 21, 1898;
  transferred to Division Hospital, August 9, 1898; discharged
  January 7, 1899.


  Sanson, Joseph, Lowell, enlisted Company G, Sixth Massachusetts
  Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company M, Eighth
  Massachusetts Infantry, January 7, 1899; mustered out April 28,
  1899.


  Scharpf, Leo, Cambridge, enlisted June 29, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Simmons, John, Americus, Georgia, enlisted in the band, December
  6, 1898 and transferred to Company M, Eighth Massachusetts
  Infantry, same date; mustered out April 28, 1899. Previous
  record; Enlisted as a private in Battery L, First Massachusetts
  Heavy Artillery, May 9, 1898; mustered out November 14, 1898.


  Snow, Walter R., Somerville, Artificer, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, as private, February 28, 1899.


  Stagg, John W., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Stewart, Clarence R., Somerville, Corporal, enlisted April 28,
  1898; died at Regimental Hospital, Chickamauga Park, Georgia,
  June 11, 1898.


  Tabor, Charles S., Charlestown, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Taylor, Albert C., Somerville, enlisted May 9, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Taylor, Arthur F., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; Wagoner,
  August 6, 1898; mustered out as private, April 28, 1899.


  Tesson, William A., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by order, February 23, 1899.


  Walker, Henry E., Saugus, enlisted June 23, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Wallace, Patrick H., Lowell, enlisted in Company G, Sixth
  Massachusetts Infantry, May 6, 1898; transferred to Company M,
  Eighth Massachusetts Infantry, January 9, 1899; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.


  Wallace, William B., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898;
  discharged by reason of being a minor, July 18, 1898.


  Webb, Richard I., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Whitney, James E., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  Wiley, Richard S., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered
  out April 28, 1899.


  York, James W., Somerville, enlisted April 28, 1898; mustered out
  April 28, 1899.




_Chronology_


  FEBRUARY, 1898.

  15. U. S. S. Maine destroyed in Havana harbor.


  MARCH.

  9. Congress appropriates $50,000,000 for national defence.

  16. Meeting of the Eighth Regiment, M. V. M. officers at
  headquarters in Salem to discuss matter of regiment volunteering
  in case of war with Spain. Decision was to volunteer.

  24. Spanish torpedo gunboat flotilla assembled at Cape Verde
  Islands.

  28. Congress received report of Naval Board of Inquiry declaring
  that U. S. S. Maine was destroyed by an exterior explosion.


  APRIL.

  9. General Fitz Hugh Lee, consul-general, left Havana.

  15. Legislature of Massachusetts appropriated $500,000 for local
  defence and equipment of troops.

  21. Spanish government sent passports to U. S. Minister Woodford.

  22. Colonel William A. Pew, Jr., commanding Eighth Regiment, M.
  V. M., tenders services of regiment to Governor Wolcott.

  23. President William McKinley calls for 125,000 troops.

  25. Congress declares war to have existed with Spain since April
  21.

  Admiral Dewey and fleet sailed from Hong Kong for Manila.

  Governor Wolcott received notification from Secretary of War
  regarding quota to be furnished by Massachusetts.

  27. Governor Wolcott received letter from Secretary of War
  requesting four Infantry regiments, and one of heavy artillery.

  28. Colonel Pew and commanders of Second, Sixth and Ninth
  Regiments ordered to Boston to hold conference with Governor
  Wolcott.

  Officers of Eighth Regiment met Colonel Pew at State House and
  arrangements made for recruiting a regiment of volunteers.

  Recruiting opened in cities and towns represented by companies in
  Eighth Regiment.

  29. Eighth Regiment ordered to report at State Camp Grounds,
  South Framingham, May 5, at 11 A. M.


  MAY.

  1. Admiral Montojo's Spanish fleet destroyed in Manila Bay by
  fleet under command of Admiral Dewey. News received several days
  later.

  5. Companies of Eighth Regiment left home stations amid ovations.
  Reviewed at State House by Governor Wolcott. Went into camp at
  South Framingham.

  6. Examination of commissioned officers.

  7. Examinations of enlisted men commenced. Many rejected and sent
  home.

  10. Companies B, F, E, G, L and M, sworn into the United States
  service. Governor Wolcott witnessed swearing in of Company L.

  11. Companies A, C, D, H, I and K, sworn into the United States
  service, completing the regiment. Second Massachusetts Infantry
  left camp for Tampa, Florida.

  14. Governor Wolcott and staff visited camp. Governor presented
  commissions to officers of Eighth Regiment.

  Regiment received orders to move to Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

  16. Regiment left camp for Chickamauga Park, Georgia, after being
  reviewed by Governor Wolcott.

  19. Regiment arrived at Citico freight yard, outside Chattanooga,
  Tennessee. Arrived at Chickamauga Park, Georgia, early in evening
  and went into bivouac for night.

  20. Marched to camp site on Alexander road and went into camp.
  Assigned to Second Brigade, Third Division, First Army Corps,
  with Twelfth New York and Twenty-First Kansas Regiments. Colonel
  Pew, senior commander, placed in command of brigade.

  28. First death in regiment. Private Herbert O. Burnham of
  Company D, of Lynn.


  JUNE.

  3. U. S. S. Merrimac sunk in entrance to Santiago harbor by
  Hobson and others.

  13. Paymaster Barr, Eighth Regiment, M. V. M., arrived in camp
  with state pay.

  17. Bunker Hill day observed with bon-fire, and concert by Drum
  Corps.

  20. Expedition under command of General Shafter landed at
  Baiquiri.

  24. Action with the Spaniards at La Guasimas.

  29. Colonel Pew relieved and brigade placed under command of
  General Waites of Texas.


  JULY.

  1-2. Actions with Spaniards at El Caney and San Juan hill.

  Members of regiment transferred to United States Hospital Corps
  about this time.

  3. Congressman William H. Moody of Massachusetts, arrived in camp.

  Admiral Cevera's Spanish fleet annihilated off Santiago.

  4. National holiday duly celebrated. Congressman Moody delivered
  patriotic address. Programme of sports interferred with by
  arrival of United States Paymaster.

  13. First case of typhoid made its appearance in the regiment.

  17. Regiment celebrated the fall of Santiago, assisted by Twelfth
  New York and Twenty-First Kansas Regiments.

  19. Regiment, with exception of Company A of Newburyport, went on
  hike to Pea Vine valley, pitched camp and returned following day.

  23. Old knapsacks, issued by state, condemned and burned. Blanket
  bags issued in their places.

  26. Spain asks terms of peace.

  29. Eighth Regiment won division rifle match with score of 481.

  30. First division sham fight took place.


  AUGUST.

  9. New stand of colors received by regiment.

  Colonel Pew addressed men concerning typhoid fever.

  12. Peace protocol signed and hostilities suspended.

  16. First furloughs granted to men broken down in health.

  Eighth Regiment participated in big review at Snodgrass Hill.

  22. Bon-fire and celebration in honor of receipt of orders to
  break camp.

  23. Regiment marched over road to Rossville, Georgia. Embarked
  for Lexington, Kentucky.

  24. Arrived and went into camp on Clark farm at Montrose, a few
  miles outside of Lexington, Kentucky.


  SEPTEMBER.

  15. Twenty-First Kansas volunteers of the brigade received orders
  to prepare for home and muster out.

  20. Secretary of War, General Russell A. Alger of Michigan,
  visited camp and reviewed the troops.

  23. Governor Bradley of Kentucky and staff reviewed the troops.

  24. Regiment visited Louden Park race track, Lexington, and gave
  exhibition drill.

  26. Twenty-First Kansas regiment departed for muster out at Fort
  Leavenworth, Kansas.

  27. First Territorial regiment arrived in camp from west.


  OCTOBER.

  10. First battalion of regiment sent out on Bryan Pike on account
  of trouble at Lexington.

  11. Men of regiment visited Forepaugh & Sells Brothers circus at
  Lexington.

  20. General Breckinridge turned command over to General Wilson.


  NOVEMBER.

  10. Regiment transferred to Second Brigade, Second Division,
  First Army Corps.

  Evacuation of Lexington.

  12. Regiment arrived at Americus, Georgia, and went into camp.

  Krag-Jorgensen rifles arrived.

  Thanksgiving day. Men enjoyed dinner provided by Captain Augustus
  P. Gardner of Hamilton, Massachusetts.


  DECEMBER.

  10. Commissioners at Paris signed treaty of peace.

  25. Christmas day. Camp decorated. Men provided with dinner by
  Hon. George von L. Meyer of Hamilton, Massachusetts.

  26. Twelfth New York regiment left camp enroute for Cuba.

  31. Orders received for regiment to prepare to move to Cuba.


  JANUARY.

  6. First Battalion broke camp and left for Cuba, via Savannah,
  Georgia.

  8. First Battalion embarked on Transport Obdam from Savannah for
  Cuba.

  Second and Third Battalions left Americus, Georgia, for Cuba, via
  Savannah.

  9. Arrived at Savannah. Fire in freight yard.

  10. Second and Third Battalions embarked on Transport Michigan
  for Cuba.

  First Battalion arrived and landed at Matanzas, Cuba.

  13. Second and Third Battalions arrived and landed at Matanzas,
  Cuba.

  20. Cuban insurgents laid down their arms. Celebration in honor
  of event.


  FEBRUARY.

  20. Regiment participated in parade and reception to General
  Gomez, Cuban General.

  25. Twelfth New York regiment of brigade got orders to prepare
  for home and muster out.


  MARCH.

  18. Regiment received orders to prepare for home and muster out.

  24. Regiment escorted the Twelfth New York to Transport Meade and
  watched it embark for home.


  APRIL.

  3. Regiment embarked on Transport Meade for home.

  4. Transport sailed for Boston at 6.30 A. M.

  9. Transport arrived at Boston. Regiment disembarked at New
  England dock and marched to South Armory, being reviewed at State
  House by Governor Wolcott and staff. Regiment furloughed and
  companies returned to home stations. Receptions given returning
  commands.

  11. President William McKinley officially proclaimed the war to
  have terminated.

  12. Men of regiment reported for duty from furlough.

  19. Regiment furloughed until April 28.

  28. Regiment reported for duty at 8.30 A. M. and companies were
  mustered out in the following order: Companies E, D, G, M, L, K,
  B, C, F, I, H, and A, Band, field and staff, Colonel Pew.




_Appendix_


The following letters will be of interest to the members of the
regiment, showing, as they do, the standing the regiment and its
commander had with officers higher in authority in '98, and the fact
that the good opinion is retained 10 years later.

  Headquarters, Department of Matanzas,
  MATANZAS, CUBA, March 10, 1899.

  TO THE PRESIDENT,
  Executive Mansion, Washington.

  _Sir_:--I take pleasure in saying that I have known Colonel
  William A. Pew, Jr., Eighth Massachusetts Volunteers, since his
  entry into the service at Camp Thomas. He has served with me in
  Kentucky, Georgia, and in this Island, and has shown himself to
  be in every way competent to command his regiment, which is one
  of the best I have seen in the Army. Colonel Pew is a lawyer by
  profession, but has devoted himself very persistently to the
  National Guard, with which he has served some eighteen or twenty
  years. Withal, he is still in the prime of life, and should
  occasion require it, I should be glad to see you avail of his
  services for the Regular Army, or any further service that may
  be necessary in the volunteers. Colonel Pew is entirely capable,
  correct in his habits, soldierly in his bearing, and at all times
  attentive to his duties. You could not do better, if his services
  were required, than appoint him to the rank of Brigadier General,
  which grade I am sure he would have won had it been his good
  fortune to participate in the conflict with the enemy.

  I cordially commend him for the above promotion, and bespeak
  your good opinion of him, such officers as he will commend to
  your notice, and the regiment itself.

  Very respectfully,
  (Signed)      JAMES H. WILSON,
  _Major General of Volunteers_.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Headquarters, District of Matanzas,
  MATANZAS, CUBA, March 13, 1899.

  TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL, U. S. ARMY,
  Washington, D. C.

  _Sir_:--I have the honor to recommend for appointment as
  Brigadier General of Volunteers, Colonel William A. Pew, of the
  Eighth Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry. Colonel Pew has been
  under my command since last June and has proved his capacity in
  many ways. He has been at times during this interval, in command
  of a brigade, and also of the Third Division, First Army Corps.
  He has one of the best regiments in the service in all respects,
  due largely to his intelligence and faithful service. I consider
  him fully qualified to discharge the duties of Brigadier General.

  Very respectfully,
  (Signed)      J. P. SANGER,
  _Brigadier General, U. S. V._

       *       *       *       *       *

  WILMINGTON, DELAWARE,
  October 22, 1907.

  H. E. WEBBER, ESQ.,
  Salem Post Office, Salem, Mass.

  _My dear Sir_:--Replying to your letter of October 19th, I hasten
  to say that the Eighth Massachusetts Infantry served under my
  command during the war with Spain. It was a most excellent
  volunteer regiment, exceedingly well officered, from Colonel
  Pew down to the lowest lieutenant. It was noted for the good
  discipline displayed by it throughout its entire service, and
  what struck me particularly were the good relations existing
  between the officers and the enlisted men at all times and in all
  places. It was quite apparent that the officers treated their men
  with just consideration, equally removed from undue familiarity
  on the one hand and oppressive severity on the other. They took
  every care to instruct their men in all their duties, and while
  the regiment did not participate in any battle, it showed by
  its promptitude and willing obedience to orders, that it would
  give a good account of itself in the presence of the enemy. Its
  camps were noted for their cleanliness and good police, and both
  officers and men for the cheerful intelligence with which they
  performed such duties as were assigned to them. In the late war
  between the States, it was said that Massachusetts sent her best
  to support the Union, and judging from the character of this
  regiment, it is safe to say that she did the same in the war
  against Spain.

  Yours very truly,
  (Signed)       JAMES H. WILSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

  NEW YORK, October 25, 1907.

  MR. H. E. WEBBER, Salem, Mass.

  _Dear Sir_:--Your letter of the 23rd inst. received. I remember
  the arrival of the Eighth Massachusetts Regiment at Camp George
  H. Thomas, Chickamauga Park, Georgia, and assigned it on report
  of its colonel to the Second Brigade, Third Division, First Army
  Corps. Colonel W. A. Pew, Jr., commanded this regiment at that
  time, and afterwards served under my command in Cuba. I can
  say that I thought very highly of the regiment. It was in good
  discipline, well instructed, good soldiers in fact, and it gives
  me pleasure to bear this testimony through the regiment, its
  officers and soldiers.

  I am, Sir,
  Very truly yours,
  (Signed)      JOHN R. BROOKE.




  TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  Obvious typographical errors and punctuation errors have been
  corrected after careful comparison with other occurrences within
  the text and consultation of external sources.

  Except for those changes noted below, all misspellings in the text,
  and inconsistent or archaic usage, have been retained. For example,
  bon-fire, bonfire; vender, vendor; pedler, pedlar, peddler;
  banquetted; rendezvouing.

  Pg 16, 'in kahki' replaced by 'in khaki'.
  Pg 28, 'wild with excitment' replaced by 'wild with excitement'.
  Pg 31, 'union delagates' replaced by 'union delegates'.
  Pg 33, 'esprit du corps' replaced by 'esprit de corps'.
  Pg 34, 'lies unequivocably' replaced by 'lies unequivocally'.
  Pg 51, 'faith and allegience' replaced by 'faith and allegiance'.
  Pg 74, 'was no sepage' replaced by 'was no seepage'.
  Pg 99, 'an egg nogg' replaced by 'an egg nog'.
  Pg 100, 'Massachuchusetts Volunteer' replaced by 'Massachusetts
           Volunteer'.
  Pg 103, 'regiimental parade' replaced by 'regimental parade'.
  Pg 106, 'hygenic measures' replaced by 'hygienic measures'.
  Pg 115, 'Massachusettts and the Twelfth' replaced by 'Massachusetts
           and the Twelfth'.
  Pg 117, 'trial for absense' replaced by 'trial for absence'.
  Pg 135, 'assigend quarters' replaced by 'assigned quarters'.
  Pg 138, 'floatsam taking' replaced by 'flotsam taking'.
  Pg 142, 'mannor of life' replaced by 'manner of life'.
  Pg 153, 'rythmic swing' replaced by 'rhythmic swing'.
  Pg 184, 'After consulation' replaced by 'After consultation'.
  Pg 219 et al, 'Aid-de-camp' replaced by 'Aide-de-camp' (5 occurrences).
  Pg 221, 'April 28, 28, 1899' replaced by 'April 28, 1899'.
  Pg 278, 'Woods, Fred C.,' entry has a line missing in the original
           text.
  Pg 312, 'Infanty, May 6' replaced by 'Infantry, May 6'.
  Pg 344, 'Massachuestts Infantry, May 6' replaced by 'Massachusetts
           Infantry, May 6'.
  Pg 371, 'Massachusettts Infantry, May 6' replaced by 'Massachusetts
           Infantry, May 6'.
  Pg 380, 'Hong Kong for Manilla' replaced by 'Hong Kong for Manila'.
  Pg 380, 'to be funnished' replaced by 'to be furnished'.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Twelve Months with the Eighth
Massachusetts Infantry in the, by Harry E. Webber

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EIGHTH MASSACHUSETTS INFANTRY ***

***** This file should be named 52321-0.txt or 52321-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/2/3/2/52321/

Produced by John Campbell and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

